<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 16: Renewed Enthusiasm</title>
  </head>
  <body><div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="7acce3193127d4b71a6c2b140c22dc95">(1)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="dfd201faa44e617abcd7ac9bd237c093">After a long time Moosa stood by the bridge of the stream, once again, across which the independent territory of the Frontier Falcon began. A wooden plank was stuck on this very tree near the bridge but the writing on the plank was different from that Moosa had previously read when he had first entered the Valley of the Shaheen. These were the words of the writing:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3688565d3f0546207895ae2bc041a414">"Beyond this stream is the kingdom of the Frontier Falcon. Anyone who has accepted the government of the Abu Abdullah, the traitor, is not permitted to enter. The oppressed Muslims who want to seek refuge from the atrocities of the Christians are permitted to enter but the punishment for spies of the enemies is death."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="817c1354304eeefbcdbdbcfef44f202f">It was time for <i>Asr</i> prayers. Moosa dismounted his horse and tied it to a tree and after performing ablution from the water of the stream, stood on the lush green grass to offer his prayers. About twenty-five armed youths appeared from around the trees and gathered close to Moosa. Moosa got up after completing his prayers, turned to them and said, "I would like to meet your emir. My name is Moosa."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="98ddcb034074db564cf7862783ef2b4f">"Moosa! You?!", a youth said after moving forward and taking a closer look at him. "You were alive? Where were you all this while?" The youth's concern was transforming into joy.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f9f532961a11e76c0c9c0856ddf8cc39">Moosa said, "Tell your emir that I seek permission to present myself before him. I will wait here for his orders." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="0d030002291c5bc52ae81464e069c9bd">The youth replied, "The Lion of Granada does not need any permission to enter the Valley of the Falcon."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="952249684b59c7e7ea9c05428bc084cf">The youth was the commander of this group of <i>mujahideen</i>. On his single cue, a soldier brought Moosa's tied horse. The youth addressed Moosa and said, "Please mount your horse. Our horses are on the other side of the stream."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="69f1e426b700409e4d1790b91168ca81">After crossing the stream, the youth and five of his companions mounted their horses and accompanied Moosa while the rest disappeared into the woods again. After passing through the narrow and dark pathways of the forest, they reached outside the gate of a fort by midnight. Contrary to Moosa's expectation, the gate of the fort was open, while a few men were standing, waiting outside for them. One of them held a torch. When Moosa came near the gate, someone came forward and got a hold of his horse's reins. Moosa got off the horse and looking towards him in the blurry light of the torch, said, "Is it Bashir?" Bashir immediately embraced him. Overwhelmed with emotions, Bashir kept repeating these words, "Where were you? Why did you keep us uninformed about yourself for so long? Is this a dream?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="582603d84dc7c79665d73be4ed868ffe">After being separated from Bashir's grip, Moosa turned his attention towards the other men. A man clad in black extended his hand towards him. While shaking his hand, Moosa looked at Bashir and Bashir said, "This is Mansoor Bin Ahmed."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="50087b7a588c7bf49db4d62d5e3e5c0d">After shaking hands with Mansoor, his glance fell upon Abu Mohsin. Abu Mohsin stood numb and still looking at his commander. Moosa extended his hand towards him and said, "Abu Mohsin! Don't you recognize me?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9f15a34f673dfd24a990e78b11d434f4">In a display of reverence, Abu Mohsin kissed Moosa's hand.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="33bba0464d2616aef2ac467a8c4456c0">All of them entered into the fort. The food-spread was laid out in a spacious room. Moosa said, "You have still not eaten?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="10f172b7388efd45464f699bd400720b">Bashir replied, "We were waiting for you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ba6db49c78d7dce0dceea98b1f98c75e">"So even at the gate you all were waiting for me? But how did you know that I was coming?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="20d3c886e0770e58ac2888f765d83047">Mansoor replied, "When you were about four miles away from our border, we were informed that a guest is arriving and a little after <i>Maghrib</i> prayers we got the news as to who our guest was."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bddd758bca74f5373e7af58b12ca3c01">After sitting at the food-spread, that scene came in front of Moosa's eyes when he first entered into the valley of the falcons with Al-Zeghel. He was imagining that feast in the forest whose host was Badr Bin Mughira. Today when Mansoor Bin Ahmed assisted him in washing his hands, he suddenly felt like a stranger. Despite Bashir's rapport and Mansoor's sincerity, he felt a sort of loneliness in the gathering. He tried to bring Badr Bin Mughira's topic but he could not utter the words. The hosts were waiting for their guest to extend his hand towards the food. </p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="07befaa045d23652f1a0b33442048442">Basher said, "Please start."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="484f6d59af8b17cb4bf325d0d860ab1c">Moosa involuntarily picked up a morsel but he had lost his appetite. His hand stopped as it reached his mouth. Curtains of tears drew in front of his eyes. A voice drenched in pain came out of his mouth, "Badr! Badr!" and he put down the bite onto the cloth-spread.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d7c864f3686da290791103399842b155">In a state of immense concern, the hosts were looking at him. Moosa hid his face in his sleeves. The <i>mujahid</i> who would make the hearts of lions to shudder, who had learned to fight storms and play with lightening, who had the boldness of laughing in the horrific face of death, was crying in this packed gathering like an innocent child whose dearest toy had broken. "Forgive me. I was not hungry." Saying this in a husky voice, he got up and left the room.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c36b9ab2fd92136c675f550d45235a32">The hosts looked at each other. Mansoor said, "Wait for a while. I will be right back. Bashir, you may come along with me."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b60d162d6dc34f8265f4f2048d36e51e">Moosa stood in the courtyard, staring at the twinkling stars in the sky. "Badr! Badr!", he said while sobbing.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="67b5932176edbafcf69ac00f487e7625">Mansoor stepped forward and while placing his hands on his shoulders said, "This pessimism doesn't suit the stature of the greatest <i>mujahid</i> of Granada. Granada's plight is pathetic but we should not loose morale."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6de6ee2dd31b3e77557f7ee0d414e66c">Turning around and looking towards him, Moosa said, "At the moment I'm not thinking about Granada. Mansoor! You don't know. Broken walls can be re-erected. Forts can be rebuilt and the nation's population can be increased but a messiah that infuses <i>iman</i> into the veins of dead nations is not born again and again. Badr was a messiah of our nation but we executed him at the gallows. He was the last drop of blood in the veins of this dead nation. He was our sword that was broken, he was our arm that had been chopped off, he was a sun that has set and now we are wandering in the dark.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e4b00b4a65a415cf9ebaa9f83719c071">(2)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="edc0d384a418521f44a39e4dfd0d0e7e">Galloping of horses could be heard outside the fort. Mansoor looked at Bashir. Comprehending his cue, Bashir walked towards the gate.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9f30b2467c424afb177640f955e94035">Mansoor said to Moosa, "You are exhausted. Let's go and sit inside."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c866bf38a21d34a166527eb3aecee447">Abu Moosa went along with Mansoor without saying anything. After climbing a flight of stairs made of stone, they entered into a room in the upper story. Torches were lit in the room. On Mansoor's cue, Moosa sat on a chair. While sitting down on another chair close to him, Mansoor said, "If nature can do one miracle, then, it can also do another. We had become hopeless in your case. Today when we heard of your arrival, then, we thought that our men were mistaken. Isn't it possible that just as we found Moosa, similarly, you might find Badr? Can he also not disappear just like you?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="677dec880efe928f43cc051c8f1f2639">Becoming a little optimistic, Moosa looked towards Mansoor, but then, became disappointed again and said, "Given the circumstances, looks like you too have become a poet like me. Hopelessness makes everyone a poet. All along the way I kept falsely consoling myself that Badr Bin Mughira is alive and maybe the person Abu Abdullah executed was someone else. It could also be that he might be in prison like me and even while sitting for dinner at your cloth-spread my eyes were glued at the door. I was waiting for a miracle from nature and when you asked me to extend my hand towards the food, my flickering flame of hope was put-off. The reality that Badr Bin Mughira's place lies vacant in this gathering was unbearable for me. If I had raised his topic on my arrival, then, I would not have behaved like a child at the cloth-spread. But I was waiting, thinking that he was alive, not dead. Instead of saying anything from my mouth, I wanted to hear something from your tongue. Mansoor! I am not unaware of the meaning of life and death. The memories of the dead has never bothered me. Even in my dreams I have always seen them in another world instead of this one. Despite the fact that the span of our friendship was very brief, I feel that he was really close to me in this world. Rather he was part of my existence."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="d983a282bfa7bf583d5d4af020bd05b4">Someone's footsteps could be heard away from the door. Brining a meaningful smile to his face, Mansoor said, "Would you like to meet Badr Bin Mughira instantly?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c9a14d60e3a7f3dab28536381d64537c">For a moment Moosa kept staring at Mansoor dumbfounded. Hearing the footsteps outside, he turned his attention towards the door and suddenly his entire life gathered in his eyes. Clad in iron from head to toe, Badr Bin Mughira was in front of him. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="b6cd18df093e0ddcd4187bf7bd39535d">For a moment, Moosa sat still in his chair without moving a muscle. Then gradually his heartbeat started throbbing. His lips shivered. He yelled, "Badr! Badr!"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a48674468c058e1dbdd6d89ef00d44b8">Badr took a step forward and opened his arms. Moosa got up and embraced him. He was saying, "Badr! You are alive! My heart has not disappointed me. My friend! My companion!! My arm!!!"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fe1b68de1cfbbd2cc44573e8719e6d07">Tears had already come into Badr's eyes but he remained silent and when they sat in front of each other, Moosa looked towards Mansoor and said, "Both of you are so mean. Why didn't you inform me as soon as I arrived?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="18a8b6e968fb3d5e80748c45705bde72">Manoor answered, "Don't you think that you deserved some sort of punishment for disappearing for so long? Ask Badr how concerned he was for you. But it was not our intention to cause you any anxiety. Badr has just come from outside. Had we told you before, it would have become unbearable for you to wait even for a moment."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="eb485f4b0d2e020ca437e73e5440ae51">Bashir entered the room and said, "Your arrival is awaited at the cloth-spread. Please come!"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="766f98f8d3a600b9007c99e194b910db">Badr looked at Moosa and said, "Carry on. I will change my clothes and come."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="38560d3d403d928e8b6a1e4e8f9e93e1">(3)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bbd47d9b8b82c2b4962e97d02e48cbac">After dinner, Badr Bin Mughira, Moosa, Bashir and Abu Mohsin returned to this room and talked for long. Moosa had reached here after a long journey and Badr had come to the fort from a couple of remote checkposts after changing three horses, but, despite this unprecedented meeting, no one was tired or sleepy. Both narrated their accounts. Later, a discussion ensued on the present and future situation.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="640ddd2fa9e32618fb1bce91b5766086">After asking Abu Mohsin a few questions, Moosa said, "After release from captivity, I had gone to Granada in the guise of a merchant. I stayed there for only a couple of days within which the opinion I formed of the people there is that they will support us to save themselves from an undignified death. Now there is no misunderstanding about Ferdinand. Four hundred thousand immigrants from other cities are now in Granada and hearing their ordeal every citizen of Granada is sure that if Abu Abdullah opens the gates of Granada for Ferdinand's forces, then, their fate won't be any different than the Muslims of Malaga and the other cities. Contingents of volunteers are guarding the gates of the city. Day and night there are protests taking place against Abu Abdullah at the gates of Al-Hamra. I'm positive that if Abu Abdullah does not respect the feelings of the people, then, the army would support the people and now even the group of traitors also believes that they would have to empty their palaces for Ferdinand's troops. At first they were sure that they would take advantage of being a part of Abu Abdullah's government, and with the patronage of Ferdinand, plunder the people with both hands. But now fear was looming over them that if Granada was captured by Ferdinand they would have to then face dacoits that were more dangerous and merciless than themselves. One of Tareef's companions had delivered his last message to Abu Abdullah and Abu Abdullah and his companions were now feeling that if Ferdinand's men can kill a person like Tareef then no one should have any misunderstanding about themselves. I'm sure Ferdinand won't delay his attack on Granada. Time is short and we have a lot to get done."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="69137641a64eb84957a89e6420eb466c">Badr said, "Ferdinand's troops have left Malaga. I got this news today afternoon."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="234b24bd24176a33cbde0b62c1187179">Moosa was startled at this and said, "If this is true then I have to reach Granada immediately."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fbbf8820dc1a261b403a810b4fac0e15">Badr Bin Mughira said, "I think you still have some misunderstanding about the people of Granada."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ac45d7c55be26a5450d6f5317ddf036e">Moosa said, "When I thought that the people of Granada would support us for a life of dignity then that was a wishful thought but now they want to save themselves of an undignified death and I'm sure when the only option they would have is death then they would give priority to a death of dignity instead of death of indignity. This will be the first war against Ferdinand in which maybe the nation's old traitors and the peace-loving people would also support us."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="de13a84d50accdb5b1f509b7a9aa79f2">Badr Bin Mughira said, "And for this <i>jihad</i> you will have to pledge again at the holy hand of Abu Abdullah."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2392c0acd6301ee01d93d8687052f7b5">Moosa replied in a state of concern, "I have come to you for Granada not for Abu Abdullah. Maybe I have some misunderstanding regarding the people of Granada but I have no misunderstanding about you. Even if I had not come here, even then you would have come to the aid of the people of Granada."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="705e151d96bd2b5a8e5947004f1ed409">Badr Bin Mughira remained silent for a moment then got up towards the window and started peeping outside. His back was towards Moosa.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="99c82ea9092d661ccabeb6c2ecb703f6">Moosa said, "Had I not known that given the circumstances we were able to defend the four walls of Granada, then, I would have joined the ranks of your <i>mujahideen</i> as an ordinary soldier but I am sure that with your help we can win this war. Even now, more than one hundred thousand volunteers can be recruited in Granada." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="c42ee8d1df333eba37fe6e8a0161ac82">Suddenly, Badr Bin Mughira turned around, looked Moosa and said, "Moosa! You know very well that I will not hesitate to offer the biggest sacrifice to save Granada but the past events have compelled me to think whether we can save Granada. Whether our past sacrifices for Granada could be of any use? And even now if we make Granada our defensive entrenchment, wouldn't our further sacrifices go to waste? Till when will we keep supporting these falling walls whose foundations have been shaken and till when will our blood keep watering the tree whose roots have been infested with mites. What I say is a bit harsh but hiding the vicious face of reality under the veils of beautiful words in useless. I am willing to admit that the people of Granada are realizing their mistakes. The courage to defend is sprouting in their hearts and maybe they might fight too, but, unfortunately, even today, their emir is Abu Abdullah and even today those people are in power whose treachery turned our glorious victories to defeats. The people of Granada's shoulders are burdened with dead bodies that should have been buried a long time ago. You say that the people demonstrate at the gates of Al-Hamra day and night but isn't the objective of these protests to have Abu Abdullah come out of his palace and lead them? What can I say about a people who pickup a rotten corpse and place it on their shoulders for their guidance in the battlefield. Moosa! The sweat and blood of our ancestors has been spent in building the Al-Hamra but if today its walls are giving refuge to traitors like Abu Abdullah then for God's sake tell the people of Granada to bring down those walls. If the gates of Al-Hamra stop their hands from grabbing the necks of the nation's traitors, then, break these gates. If the dead have taken the seats of power, then, bury them with those very seats."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9e5ad408b1bc7e09536a21749c094c99">"You should not have any misunderstanding. Our swords were not unsheathed for some king. We had no love for the so-called royal family of Granada. The reason we joined hands with Abul Hassan was because he vowed to rid the nation from the slavery of the enemy. We accepted Al-Zeghel's leadership because he jumped into the battlefield of the nation's freedom but our failures were because they did not feel it important to cleanse Granada of the traitors before jumping into the field. Al-Zeghel got a chance, but instead of hanging his nephew at the gallows, he made him the ruler of Loja, who handed over that city to Ferdinand."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="957ef64f99a3b31e6dc6e6b5b6eb429d">"Ask Abu Mohsin. He got a chance to guide the people of Granada but, he too, made the same mistake. He assembled an army of volunteers and made Abu Abdullah its leader but along with Abu Abdullah the traitors also came into the field and his victories transformed to defeats." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="f9d332cfed1bdb8f8f6347ba7f0ded0e">"Moosa! If you have come here with an invitation of <i>jihad</i>, then you won't be disappointed but despite all these incidents do we still have to carry the coffins of Abu Abdullah and his companions? Rest assured that we are not the type who would close their eyes to an ensuing flood but instead of sitting in a ship made of twigs, we would put our faith in our hands. We cannot fool ourselves by taking refuge behind walls of sand."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="4d23aa432e50df3b8481dd8cd27f35ee">"You say that seeing their interest in danger, Abu Abdullah and his comrades will support the people but can you prove that if Ferdinand assures them that their interests would be safeguarded and that they would be shoved over the people and would be allowed to suck their blood, won't they stop supporting the people? Till these people are alive, the life of Granada is in danger and I don't want to extend their unnatural life. I said what I had to say. Despite all that I have said, if you command, then, I am at your service and my men are at your service."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b451de2173b8b9ac5d358e55bf7f55b8">Badr Bin Mughira sat on his chair. Moosa thought for a while with his head bowed down. Finally, he said, "You have come to know that Ferdinand is going to attack Granada and God is my witness that the only question in front of me is how to save this enclave of the Muslims of Andalus. For us, this is not the time to think about Abu Abdullah. We will deal with all the traitors when the time comes. Do you think I would have any mercy in my heart because of whom the honor of thousands of the nation's daughter has been looted? But now, on one side we have the enemy who has positioned his lance over our chests and on the other we have these culprits. If we focus on them, then, the enemy will not miss his blow. And if, God forbid, Ferdinand captures Granada, then, we're finished forever. Badr! At the moment my main task is to save the honor of the thousands of women. If we are able to push back the Christians, then these hypocrites will be left with only two options. Either they would go after the people or they would be crushed under their feet. I will leave for Granada first thing in the morning. If Ferdinand is headed towards Granada, then, you will know about the strengths of their resistance in a few days. If I become hopeless, then I would think that instead of Granada, these forests and mountains are our bastion. I will come to you along with those who want to fight the enemy till their last breath."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c58ffbc6f48c2932d4766715271db3b9">Badr said, "You know well that when you raise your sword against the enemy, our swords will not be able to stay in the scabbard. If any group in Granada has vowed to fight till the end, then, do not advise them to come here. They will come here in a state of hopelessness and there is no place here for hopeless people. If they stand their ground, then not only us, but Muslims from all over the world will come to their aid. As for Abu Abdullah and his comrades, I will reiterate that if circumstances do not permit you to take immediate action against them, then too it is important that they are watched closely."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6ca5775df7ce204c5781915e5eeeba51">Moosa said, "If you don't mind, I would like to take Abu Mohsin along with me."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="66c23461065af8881cba2bd8e946711c">"How can we have any objection. You may take anyone of us along."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="319d34f50abf2b12f6b777165d505c83">After the morning prayer, Badr Bin Mughira and his companions were bidding farewell to Moosa and Abu Mohsin.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fad3d57b4bef0f4ad55dff54679164a3">(4)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="dd91f24f77b6d707f842137aa95800d7">Ferdinand had laid siege on Granada. His cowardly troops repeatedly attacked the city but they had to retreat in the volley of arrows. However, Ferdinand and his troops were intoxicated in their might. They paid no heed to the minor losses and continued their siege on the city. The people from the nearby settlements had already taken refuge in the city once they heard about the advancement of the Christians. Ferdinand's troops ravaged their lush green gardens and destroyed their crops.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2ae336a1433e98f88e0c99224ff75848">The city's leadership was in Moosa's hand and his morale boosting speech had breadth new life into the people of Granada. Like the rest of the people, Abu Abdullah and his comrades had also accepted him as their leader and the people too had forgotten their past sins. The theologians, along with their students and followers, had already proclaimed <i>jihad</i> against Ferdinand. The chiefs did the same on behalf of their tribes. The fervor of the youth was such that they had hung two influential tribal chiefs for being spies of Ferdinand.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="20c82209c2ccf15c2d348d76db465b25">Ferdinand was sure that the people of the city would lay down their arms themselves as soon as their provisions were exhausted. But one day a little before sunrise while Ferdinand's troops were awakening, all the gates of the city were opened and the Muslims came out and attacked. This was an unexpected attack for Ferdinand. Within no time Muslims had killed about four thousand Christians. In the meantime, Ferdinand's archers embedded themselves into the trenches while his foot soldiers and cavalry got time to get organized. Moosa came out and attacked from the western gate with a thousand cavaliers and played havoc in the formations of the enemy and captured the forward posts of the archers.</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="2a169e7b76672676d04c856284e8802e">Abu Abdullah appeared from the southern gate and the foot soldiers of the enemy were compelled to say that the puppet King of Granada has still not forgotten the skill of marksmanship and horsemanship of his ancestors.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="39b48bc0013e5f9d66c4e68956575524">By noon, Ferdinand's troops were retreating from every front but by late afternoon they had organized their foot soldiers and cavalry behind the last trench, which made it impossible for Granada's troops to move forward. The flying arrows became a separator between the formations of the two parties. Moosa had sufficient infantry troops but he did not issue an order for an all-out attack. His archers had taken up positions in the vicinity of the city. His cavalry would move forward and launch attacks in small bands and would return after causing loss to the enemy.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f316b7efe6aa5781a3301fd69239a229">Despite incurring heavy losses, Ferdinand was not shaken. He was now sure that starvation had forced the Muslims to come of the city and fight and in a day or two they would have no morale to continue. Therefore, instead of fighting an offensive battle, he instructed his troops to fight defensively.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8c00224796c7e563eacb57e8058d58e1">After <i>Dhuhr</i> prayers Moosa organized his army's formations and ordered his commanders to prepare for a final assault. When the time came, the heralders would call them out loudly from the tower of every vallation and then they should attack the enemy as soon as they hear them.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="982d9aac0c24269dfcf728c9fdb1d315">The experienced people were not optimistic about the outcome of this attack but rather they thought it to be suicidal. A straight attack onto the entrenchment of the archers was very dangerous and besides this, Ferdinand's cavalry was atleast eight times more than Moosa's. The infantry, on whom Moosa was relying upon the most, would not be effective in this assault but the people had full faith in Moosa. They were also prepared to jump into the fire on his cue. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="2ab7b6cbabeb6731d2de3263df14fb35">After instructing the troops, Moosa entered into the gate of the city, then, got off his horse and climbed on the boundary wall. Turn by turn, he got up on every gate of the towers and scanned the horizon. The setting shadows started aggravating his pessimism. Running on the boundary walls he would jump off a gate and climb the next and then would ask the guards, "Have you seen anything as yet?" And when the guards would reply in the negative, he would look towards the horizon again to console himself.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f00a576338af0d6a49e071a7409cce22">On the other side, Ferdinand was saying to the Bishop of Castile, "Holy Father! Pray that the enemy does not postpone the idea of attacking us. If your prayer is accepted, then, this war will end today." And the Bishop prayed while kneeling on both knees, in front of the statue of Mary.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4e1d8cddfa0d7c2d9f336c22517f104f">(5)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f94bb0799971dd7f0f82a7a523244416">For the third time, Moosa was climbing the stairs of the tower when a guard called out, "Dust is rising on the horizon. Maybe some troops are approaching."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9a5cd29705815fdbf30584f45c4a424b">Moosa ran up the tower, looked towards the horizon and yelled, "They have arrived! They have arrived!! Our falcons have arrived!!! Today God has granted us victory."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="492aae1062f5eb7a08877c36acfd1260">And when the horsemen appeared from the clouds of dust, tears of gratitude flowed out of Moosa's eyes. He looked down from the tower and proclaimed loudly, "Be aware!! </p>
                          <p data-p-id="49d05539bf37133074fd2f2acd1f1b35">And within no time the heralders standing on the boundary walls brought the voice of the emirs of the brigades to the ears of the soldiers. The cavalry got hold of their lances while the infantry took to their swords.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d73277c342357139b800d70d4bd74607">Moosa said "bazin" and this sound of "bazin" echoed at every corner of the boundary. Moosa ran out and mounted his horse.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1b6ccb24fcf6bf45ba88d26e1ebc6d83">On the other side, Ferdinand said to the Bishop of Castille, "Holy Father! Your prayer has been answered. Death does not need to knock at the door of the enemy. Now they are advancing towards death themselves."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="33e7dd05c5fa43560c57ecd0201cb6cf">The eyes of the last rays of the setting sun were witnessing yet another battle between the standard-bearers of the crescent and the cross. The people of Granada advanced in the volley of arrows. Ferdinand ordered his cavalry to attack and a thick battle ensued.</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="1325f01756809848b64708ab14ccc0b0">Moosa, Abu Abdullah and Abu Mohsin were leading the contingents of the cavalry from three sides of the city while the infantry had already attacked the archers in the trenches. Moosa advanced forward after breaking through the enemy lines from the northern gate. Ferdinand galloped his horse forward and yelled, "Don't let anyone of the horsemen of this contingent to go back to the city alive. Don't pursue them. They will return."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d690eccb3b356e7bb6894ed0ef0e92da">After passing through the enemy lines, Moosa vanished into the thick trees of a garden in the rear with five hundred horsemen while Ferdinand's archers waited for their return. But Moosa came behind the troops from the other side of the city and simultaneously a new army appeared from the north – an army who, besides Moosa and Abu Mohsin, no one was aware of. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="494edb91d00470e4a92a588963c03a7b">The <i>mujahids</i> of the Frontier Falcon had arrived to the aid of the people of Granada. Badr Bin Mughira attacked from the rear of the enemy with three thousand horsemen and within no time crushed the enemy lines. A confused Ferdinand ordered his troops to move to the right but in the meantime Moosa had already attacked from the rear. Now Ferdinand's troops faced Badr Bin Mughira's horsemen in the front while Moosa's fighters were in the rear. On the third side, Ferdinand's troops had pushed Abu Abdullah's cavalry back but here too the Christians had to face an unprecedented challenge. Suddenly, two thousand horsemen appeared from their rear and in the fog of the evening they thought that reinforcements had reached them but when the advancing troops attacked with the slogans of "Allahu Akbar", they started retreating towards the right. The troops under the Abu Abdullah that were retreating saw this change in situations and re-launched an attack. Now Ferdinand's entire army were pushed to one side of the city. On their right and left flanks were Badr Bin Mughira and Mansoor Bin Hassan's horsemen. In the rear were Moosa's fighters while the remainder of the army were in front fighting under the leadership of Abu Abdullah and Abu Mohsin. On the fourth side of the city, next to which the river flowed, was peaceful.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a1de9956ffc9c6217555962dd6294d54">Because of the light of the twelfth night of the moon, there was no decline in the pace of the battle. The enemy's forces were gradually retreating and the handful of Moosa's fighters in the rear were enough to stop their path.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ddf78e9666c1ed7257dd958b88d689d8">Mansoor rode his horse around the enemy and ended up in the rear and said to Moosa, "Remove your troops immediately from here."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="33d3fa7ccb365057be3ac3df94142e11">Moosa said, "But I think instead of moving from here it would be better if I moved a contingent of my troops here. They can get here maneuvering either from the left or right. If we push them towards the city, then they would come in the range of the archers."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="edc4de166371377d5017bbe78948d1ca">"But what if they enter into the city?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="69b9a5f00fa5fd73cee7094e3270ec1b">"I have ordered for the gates to be closed."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="80c9f3c508a5d27162ec773cb44eab5e">"This suggestion of yours was not bad but the infantry cannot be brought back to the rear so quickly. The number of the enemy's cavalry is far more than ours and if they maneuver right or left then we cannot stop them without incurring a huge loss. This is no time to argue. If we delay any further, I'm afraid the enemy will become aware of a very vital strategy of ours."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="21d43ed5331b6949f97c6834fee2f0c6">Moosa said, "Very well. If Badr Bin Mughira agrees with your suggestion, then I have no objection in removing my troops from here."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="58ad02234a76e7bf7a4bb879a4fc9245">"Both of us think on the same wavelength. Leave this front and come to the other side immediately otherwise the enemy will be alerted. Keep retreating to a far distance and then empty the field for the enemy."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="40b4e265ca729fda97097fa0a49a31a0">This battle had reached a decisive stage. Surrounded from three sides, the Christians were retreating. Seeing this, Ferdinand was compelled to call in his reserve troops to the field that were away from the battlefield, guarding the camps. Once again the Christians had consolidated their position.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5bb28f106ede7e10173d7c9344467e63">Suddenly, a little away from the battlefield, a fresh group of border <i>mujahideen </i>appeared from the dense trees of a garden. These horsemen, who were around a hundred had torches in their hands and they were headed towards the encampment of Ferdinand's forces instead of the battlefield. Most of the reserve troops had already arrived at the battlefield. Ferdinand's remaining soldiers tried to save the camps and supply of provisions but the bolt-speed horsemen entered the encampment from one side, and burning the camps, left from the other. The reserve troops were trying to recover when another band of horsemen appeared from the rear.</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="5e1fe0465d6d90a5fd7a04d3c1bb80b7">In one of the tents was the Bishop of Castile with some thirty monks bowed down, praying for the victory of the cross in front of the statue of the Holy Mary. The guards outside started yelling, "Holy Father, the tent is on fire!"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a498eeee229ff5f37089760b0f5bc80f">Apart from the fire of the tents, a huge stock of hay too had caught fire and its light was reaching the battlefield. The soldiers of the Christian army, without waiting for orders from their commanders, and the commanders without waiting for orders from their general turned their attention towards the tents and with this, immediately all of Badr Bin Mughira's cavalry stormed them.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2e7c3c9e30ce96293ff4b21693a2e396">The retreating troops saw no refuge in their encampment that had nothing but burning tents all around. Taking advantage of the light, the troops in pursuit would surround and slaughter them. The bewildered horses were falling after getting entangled in ropes.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a9b4031893d0bfa86739ebe0da3b6eb5">Ferdinand gave the order to blow the trumpet for a retreat and the remainder of his troops left the tents and ran. Moosa ordered his infantry to guard the provisions while his cavalry was ordered to continue the pursuit of the enemy.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="63ab4f0cc249660515bb376edf8114cf">Badr Bin Mughira and Mansoor Bin Ahmed had surrounded the enemy from the right and left and the cavalry of Granada was behind them. The only way left open for Ferdinand's troops was towards the front.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ddebe5698c5cb928379f872ff2cfcbc7">After chasing the enemy for about three miles, Badr Bin Mughira came close to Moosa and said loudly, "There is a stream at the little distance. Stop your troops. The enemy has come in the range of our final blow. Bring the mounted archers forward. The enemy will soon return."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4ace42d2e33dc2f6bb431deb9bc485ba">Moosa ordered his troops to halt. He had understood that Badr Bin Mughira had not revealed his plans to the people of Granada due to some broad interest. He had also evaluated how dangerous and devastating Badr Bin Mughira's last arrows of the quiver would be for the enemy once they reached the stream.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="92bc1c71308304df12415954ceda2bee">Ferdinand halted his horse thinking that the enemy was no longer in pursuit. He gathered his scattered troops but once he heard the galloping of enemy horses from the right and left flanks, he ordered his troops to move forward. At the banks of the stream, the defeated army had to face a new challenge. The bridge was broken and the corpses of the soldiers were lying around who Ferdinand had assigned for guarding the bridge.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b4c064fff954c67717cf28f67835b95d">For the first time, the people of Castile felt that a new problem awaited them across the stream but Ferdinand had no time to think. He ordered his troops to cross the bridge The stream was not that deep. Even the water was hardly reaching the stirrups but the banks were high.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="04d015b1cfe23f4f53ee79fc5521faa7">As soon as the first batch of horses jumped into the water, the soft tones of the pleasantly flowing water transformed into an uproar. The cries of "Allahu Akbar" were raised from the other side of the stream and immediately a volley of arrows rained from the trees. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="fdb1e813ba0e11f2b037e30fc86693f3">Injured horsemen were falling into the water as they got hit while the horses ran here and there in utter confusion. Once again the people of Castile were facing a doomsday. The remainder who hadn't entered the stream, turned their horses to retreat and the ones who survived in the stream also turned around and retreated. In the meantime, the pursuers from the right and left flanks had caught up with them. Only the rear was open to them. When they turned around and ran a short distance they came in the range of Moosa's archers. After passing from the range of the archers, they were to face a wall of lancers. Mansoor Bin Ahmed had left the right flank and joined up with the cavalry of Granada. The Castilians turned towards the right. Now they attempted to move along the stream towards the south and cross the stream from a safe place but on the other side of the stream another group of cavalry was advancing with them, who were also shooting arrows as they moved along. In such circumstances, Ferdinand shuddered at the imagination of an ultimate destruction. Now he was confronting that situation. The only option left for him was to cross the Genil river in the south. This stream from whose banks his troops were being pursued flowed out of this river. From the left and rear flanks, they were being badly pushed towards the stream by their pursuers. On the other side of the stream, the contingent of cavalry archers that was on fresh horses was continuously raining arrows at them. </p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="d939403d23e3d79887267d0e8d11dca8">As they approached the stream, most of the horses of Ferdinand's troops were free from the burden of their horsemen. The <i>mujahideen</i> were slaughtering them with their swords instead of their lances. Their hands were becoming numb but the joy of victory was making each one outshine the other. Badr Bin Mughira saw a horseman from Granada on his left. His aventail and armor shone in the moonlight but the thing that caught Badr Bin Mughira's attention was his beautiful horse. After slaughtering a few enemies, he advanced forward. A Castilian cavalryman who got injured from his lance turned his horse around and attacked him. The Granadian horseman blocked his blow with his sword but in the meantime another Castilian soldier injured him with his lance from behind and moved forward. Despite being injured, this horseman did not halt his horse but killed two more men, one after the other. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="aa91a81bec4eb35097d60c9aaf12a084">Words of appreciation flowed out of Badr Bin Mughira's mouth and he went up close and said, "I'm glad at your bravery but there is no need to go into the midst of the enemy."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b1afff478b3e60046b97b7c6ceb5b42c">After a while when Badr Bin Mughira's glance fell on the horseman from Granada again, he was drained and bent towards his saddle.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f68278b9de04b4ebccb5a73c3b1ebebe">Badr Bin Mughira advanced his horse and said, "You're wounded." The horseman's sword fell from his hand and he rested his head on his hands. Badr Bin Mughira put his arm around his back and pulled him onto his horse.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fb698eab17c7e87ee3c0a62085e04831">By midnight the remainder of Ferdinand's troops were crossing the river and the <i>mujahideen </i>were raining arrows at them. This was the biggest defeat of Ferdinand's life.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5accaf5805a4b582d930dd47f945ee8b">After this glorious victory, Moosa came down from his horse and performed a long prostration. His lips kept repeating this supplication: "Oh Oft-forgiving, Merciful Lord! We were not worthy of this yet You rewarded us. This is Your mercy upon us." Then he got up and looked at his companions. Badr Bin Mughira was at a distance, calling Bashir. Moosa ran and grabbed the reins of his horse, pulled his hand towards his lips and said, "Badr! Remove your aventail. The people of Granada are dying to see the face of the angel who has brought a thousand blessing of his Lord with him."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9b7e81d3daaa0a56f2e551fe8136cc07">Badr replied, "At the moment, the only faces worth seeing are those whose foreheads are shining with the blood of martyrdom. After this victory I have no objection to reveal myself but at the moment, don't turn the people's attention towards me. Currently, Ferdinand's infantry is scattered in the region. We should not give them a chance to escape." Saying this Badr Bin Mughira removed his aventail's veil.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="aa6626050aebebaece9ace544b55db2b">Moosa said, "God-willing very few of them will escape. I want our horses to freshen up."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5c6309f1d81dc89e93c02f539eb5d6fd">In the meantime, Abu Mohsin, Mansoor and the other officers of the army gathered around them. Badr Bin Mughira said, "Mansoor! Today you deserve my sword and my horse. I didn't know that you were so well-aware of this area's ups and downs. I'm proud of you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b78bfda3dcbb163ea8694197c3a97b91">For a valiant commander such words from a revered leader were a huge reward.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c100fd13f4ba94d94f324649986c3863">Badr Bin Mughira looked here and there and said, "Bashir has still not arrived as yet. I hope with the grace of God he survived!"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5e14b6906480787d04947c0438e38651">"Where is Bashir?" said Moosa alarmingly.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9f94437d7f6f9edf35578f6134179bd5">"I had left an injured man of your army on the other side of the stream. I had sent Bashir to provide first aid to him. His white horse was very beautiful and by his attire too, he appeared to be a high ranking official of your army. He's certainly brave but very zealous. I would like to see him. I think he has been injured very badly."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="36b261dd43c979a780b979c9c9ef6787">A horseman came forward and said to Moosa, "No one knows the whereabouts of the Sultan. Some men have seen his vacant horse."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c6765861aa68aabcefb439d43929a432">A sort of anxiety appeared on Badr Bin Mughira's face and he said, "I thought that the soldiers of Granada had freed themselves from the burden of the corpse by now. If by the Sultan you mean Abu Abdullah, then I'm afraid he could have reached Granada once again and might have ordered the gates of the city to be closed for the soldiers by now."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="688c765ec61b73b708e7f1c41543020f">Mansoor said, "I have seen him but you will be surprised that I had patronized him two or three times against my wishes. When Abu Mohsin told me that he's Abu Abdullah, I couldn't believe him."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fba002444255b6ab587b6867a7e39707">Moosa said, "Instead of the city, I bought him to the battlefield thinking he would be harmless."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1be9eec1882504e84a339217c1bd0516">Before Badr could say anything, Bashir arrived galloping his horse close to him and said, "That injured man is desperate to meet you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e2a2a1a40cff1c1d81f6bfffad0ae942">Badr enquired, "How is his condition now?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="31ee6f731f3d4547c1d859abdf5cd0ab">"There is a wound in his rib but, God-wiling, he will survive."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e7e0b504610fac2eb3eaba34d6edee5b">(7)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ed0e0f529002f93b86e061acae8fca87">The injured man sat resting against an olive tree. A few soldiers stood around him. Seeing Badr Bin Mughira and his companions the soldiers stepped aside. Badr got off his horse and went close to the injured man. At first glance Badr Bin Mughira couldn't recognize him but as he sat with a knee on the ground and looked at him, a shiver ran through his body after which he stood up. The injured man raised his head and said in a feeble voice, "Today you have saved the life of someone who didn't deserve to live. I am your criminal. I am your murderer. I regret my sins and you have all the right to pronounce the worst of punishments for me."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1c2613f3ea114257b3927b6d2a1920ac">Badr Bin Mughira stood silently looking at him. It was Abu Abdullah in front of him. That very Abu Abdullah whose reputation of being a nation seller was engraved in the heart of every <i>mujahid </i>of Andalus...something that was difficult to forgive or forget even for a person like Badr Bin Mughira.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f34e1f99eaad561f297f83003bc2914f">He was saying to himself, "Alas! I wish I hadn't seen your face at this auspicious occasion."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9de0bd891961aafa54a77ac2fab3cea5">Moosa, Bashir, Abu Mohsin and Mansoor stood silently behind Badr Bin Mughira looking at each other. From Badr Bin Mughira's face, it was not difficult to analyze his thoughts.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7ac1b3ad2c448314678903cacbbf3e80">Abu Abdullah suddenly got up, limped a step forward and started looking at Badr Bin Mughira. A voice drenched in pain came out of his lips, "Why don't you kill me. The burden of my sins has become unbearable for me now."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0dceac5f88c2aeac71d3dd19ff0cf2ff">Tears flowed out of Abu Abdullah's eyes. Badr Bin Mughira stood like a rock. Abu Abdullah again said, "I had gotten rid of the burden of life. The horses of my enemy were about to crush my body but you oppressed me. For God's sake, kill me. My burden has become too much for this earth to bear." He was crying.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d0b98f0c3103cacddcaef29d9b4325ab">There was no room in Badr Bin Mughira's heart for a traitor like Abu Abdullah but even an ordinary <i>mujahid</i> isn't accustomed to assaulting a fallen enemy no matter how angry he might be. He said, "Abu Abdullah! Your tears don't impress me but your robe has stains of blood. In the battlefield, your blood has mixed with the blood of martyrs. I can't raise my hand on you. As far as I'm concerned, I forgive you but as for a nation's criminal, only the people have the right to forgive you. I also know that the people of Granada are benevolent to the point of stupidity. They will forget the past when they see the blood on your clothes. They will proclaim, 'Long live Sultan Abu Abdullah' as soon as they see you. But Abu Abdullah! For God's sake, next time don't try to betray such a benevolent and simple-hearted people. Believe me, had this meeting taken place in the parliaments of Al-Hamra instead of the battlefield, then, maybe my sword wouldn't have given you the opportunity to talk. Despite the protests of the people of Granada, I wouldn't have stopped from chopping the head of a man who sold the honor of the daughters of the nation at the hands of the enemy for the love of wearing the crown. But at the moment you are a soldier of the nation. Your sword is stained with the blood of the enemy and maybe a few drops of your blood might have wiped the darkness of your past."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="99566f20ed090759aef0657be6aa9904">Abu Abdullah had no more strength. He limped backwards and supporting himself with a tree and said, "You a very benevolent but I know that even the entire water of the oceans is not enough to wash away my sins. Alas! If only you wouldn't have saved me from the fangs of death." He closed his eyes becoming a bit fatigued. He was about to fall when Bashir stepped forward, held him and gradually laid him on the ground.</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="b9a73643ecc04122255fac92ad8ebbf0">As he placed his foot in the stirrup, Badr said, "Bashir! His protection is your responsibility. We have a lot to get done." Moosa, Mansoor and Abu Mohsin also got on their horses.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e5224fe1bc598ac5782dbd74903c499b">Ferdinand's infantry that was left behind the cavalry was running here and there in a state of confusion and the contingents of Granada's cavalry were hunting and slaughtering them down. Those who tried to hide in the gardens and farms were being tracked down by contingents of Granada's infantry. To strike a final blow at the fleeing enemy, even the city's elderly men and young boys had come out of the city into the battlefield. The field was empty by dawn. The enemy's corpses lay at every step. The prisoners taken were around five thousand while the number of those killed were four times more. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="d8183e948e6d05a3b3fc6e36a4b97d1a">(8)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="37dd7180c34ef57d3e375f31e86b77a2">The victorious army offered its <i>Fajr</i> prayers at the banks of the river Genil. On Moosa's insistence, Badr Bin Mughira performed the duty of leading the prayers. After prayers, this was his brief supplication, "O Giver of reward and punishment! Grant us the <i>iman</i> of our ancestors. Let our heads not be bowed in front of anyone but You! Grant us the guidance to submit to You and grant us the courage to die for the sake of the religion of our beloved <i>Nabi</i> (PBUH). <i>Aameen</i>!"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6e75da8e0ff3b70e872b05f48c80299c">After the supplication, Badr Bin Mughira stood silently for a while. The <i>mujahids </i>of the valley of the falcon were looking at their leader with pride and the glances of the people of Granada were filled with love, respect and gratitude towards their benefactor. Badr Bin Mughira said:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8ae1756e21b673794eadd5b3d16b4e2b">"My dear elders and brothers! Congratulations on this glorious victory but don't think that you have gotten rid of the dangers to come after winning this war. You have merely pushed back the enemy from the four walls of Granada but most part of your Sultanate is still under enemy occupation. Even after recapturing those areas your work will still not be finished. You cannot take a sigh of relief until you capture all of Andalus. If you sleep after this victory, then remember that nature does not wake up a sleeping nation again and again. When it sees signs of life in a nation it shakes it but when it becomes hopeless, then, it sings it a lullaby into the paws of death. The Muslims of Andalus are suffering because of the deeds of these rulers of yours, who had given up most of the areas to the enemy and slept thinking that a small area of Granada is sufficient for them. For centuries the oppressed Muslims of Andalus were waiting that their brothers from Granada would come to their aid but you kept sleeping. Your brothers were ground in the mill of tyranny and oppression in Andalus. The hand of savagery and brutality kept ripping away the dignity and honor of your daughters but you kept sleeping. Your honor did not gush out. Their lips kept pleading, tears kept flowing from their eyes but you didn't budge an inch. You kept entertaining yourself with melodies of happiness.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="29c6df759c7b382fc6b28878ed98f5ac">Abul Hassan rose to expiate the sins of his predecessors but the ones who are used to sleeping to the sweet sound of the rubab found the sound of clashing swords disturbing and you tied the hands of this great <i>mujahid</i>.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8ced6d327eb5aa3ad9e27c74074bfd1b">You woke up when the flood reached at your doors. For the first time your emirs thought that besides the huts of the people even their palaces were in danger. I consider that too as a mercy of the Lord but remember that this victory of yours is the first step to your destination. Your destination is very far. Your path is filled with trenches that you have to cross with your corpses. You have merely seen a glimmer of light on the dark horizon of your life. If you remain awake, then the morning is not far but, God forbid, if you go to sleep again, then, this victory of yours would be the last ray of light of the setting sun. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="36ea865da60e58d08bfeea96ae075908">I'm not impressed by the enemy but you shouldn't have any misunderstanding regarding them. Their resources are unlimited. The number of their troops is far greater than ours. France, Rome and other Christian states of Europe are backing them. To obliterate us, they all have rallied under one banner and in contrast, we have been cut-off from the Muslim world after the fall of Almeria and Malaga. The enemy has surrounded us from all sides. Despite all this, if you guarantee not to repeat your past mistakes then I assure you that no power can defeat you. And if you don't learn from your past and if you don't unite against the combined forces of the enemy and continue to fight with each other on the instruction of those hypocrites who spread racism amongst you, then, remember that just as your brothers in the rest of Andalus are paying the price of the mistakes of their ancestors, similarly, your generations would carry the burden of your sins.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="950898616ce3aeca95917aaba7252d8a">Be vigilant to the moves of your enemy and more than the enemy beware of your traitors. No doubt that most of them have fought with you in this battle and some have washed the darkness of their sins with their blood but it is possible that in dire circumstances they could betray you once again. Keep a close eye on them and don't give them the opportunity to repeat their mistakes. This can only be possible if you have strict accountability and there is no place for mercy in your national character for traitors and nation sellers.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b4e6193e7c2ab7c2f471620862d62f2e">This is the first battle in which Abu Abdullah might have fought with noble intentions alongside his people and I pray that he keeps supporting his people in the future but make sure that he knows that he would not be successful in betraying you again.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4912da286ae162f08350e9e20c706349">The enemy will not sit silently after this defeat. They would attack again with an even larger force and you should start preparing for this from today itself. It is your great fortune that you have been blessed with a leader like Moosa.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="177cb5f787b9238405a853ea3b3f8616">I have to return immediately. It's possible that the enemy might move towards our territory but I promise that you will find me among you whenever the need arises."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="54a0a70bb504137158e253a3df6619e2">After Badr Bin Mughira, Moosa got up and made the following speech:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c4618580a16a980244f6c06f62e72346">"Muslims! Four hundred years ago when the Christians took advantage of our internal anarchy and captured most of the areas of our Sultanate, then, destiny sent Yousuf Bin Tashfeen to our aid who got rid of such an enemy for the Muslims that had a tight noose around us for a long time and today when the hypocrites amongst us had opened the doors of our homes for the enemy, when a group of hypocrites had made us wear the shackles of Ferdinand's slavery for a few pieces of humiliation, Badr Bin Mughira came as an angel of mercy for us.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="61656fdc270bc8041d447608b319e176">Yesterday's sun saw dark clouds of hopelessness on your faces and today's sun sees the smiles of gladness on your lips. The <i>mujahideen</i> of the border have taught you a forgotten lesson and that is that the secret of the strength of the Muslims is not in their number but rather in their <i>iman</i>.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="dae9310d8253f93d9e71e9b289987ab1">History is a witness that whenever Muslims have taken a defeat, it was because of the traitors amongst us and not because of the enemy's strength. This victory of ours today is proof that we can crush even a formidable enemy even in these pitiable circumstances. Whatever has been lost upto today is because of our mistakes. You listened to the traitors, you supported the hypocrites. You left the support of the Lord and took the support of Ferdinand and you saw with your own eyes that children, the elderly and the women of Basta, Almeria and Malaga are taking the punishment of your deeds. You came to the battlefield when you knew that fighting was the last option left for you. You came to put out the fire when most of your homes were gutted.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e1c73483f199aaea82601d6e22148c4e">At this auspicious occasion, I don't want to repeat the bitter events of the past. But remember! We have merely won a battle and the war is yet to be won. A long and patience-demanding war, without which, we cannot a take a sigh of relief in this country and to get the ultimate victory in this war it is vital that we cure all those diseases that transformed Abul Hassan's and Al-Zeghel's glorious victories to defeats. We would have to rid ourselves of those traitors that have sold our dignity and liberty at the hands of the enemy for the sake of a few pennies. We would have to cleanse Granada from the existence of these coward and mentally-defeated men that are impressed by the might of the enemy. We should be wary of those miscreants who are trying to pit the Hispanians, Berbers and the Arabs against each other. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="ae244f348091de1fdb3d624541cf9614">I know that Al-Hamra has still not been cleansed of hypocrites. And some of you might also have the understanding that I might not extend my hand towards those criminals of the nation who are still Ferdinand's agents due to the fear of invoking Abu Abdullah's displeasure. But let me assure you that even if I have doubts about Abu Abdullah's intentions then I will grab his collar and bring him in front of you and tell you that he has betrayed the nation even after repenting and now it would be a sin to show mercy to him. Abu Abdullah has promised me that he would not favor anyone of the nation's traitors. I announce before you that I will not tolerate any interference from Abu Abdullah on all those matters pertaining to Granada's security and God forbid even I were to commit a national crime, then, what I expect from you is that you do not forgive me either."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f9331346d9e5747f8fd4639edf70fdae">An elderly chief of Granada got up and said, "It is our collective wish that our brothers of the borders to passby Granada before moving on. The people must be desperate to see Badr Bin Mughira."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f7d7e329d9711ae7f3674ffbb7f668ba">Moosa looked at Badr Bin Mughira but he shook his head. Moosa said to the elderly chief, "A while ago even I had wished to host our benefactor for atleast a day but after exchanging views with Badr Bin Mughira I came to the conclusion that even we should not go to Granada at the moment. We should continue our advance. The people of those regions that are currently occupied by the enemy are more desperately waiting for us compared to the people of Granada."</p></pre>
</div>
</body>
</html>
