<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 9: Father and Son</title>
  </head>
  <body><div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e"><br/></p>
                          <p data-p-id="7acce3193127d4b71a6c2b140c22dc95" style="text-align:center;"><b>(1)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="d97f29255683208d898aace7983f5b1d">In the battle of Loja where <i>mujahids</i> like Naeem Bin Ridwan were writing the fate of the Muslims of Andalus with the ink of their blood, another fate was being written in the Royal Court of Granada.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="db608f88310a769a6b1450f54ffd15a1">On hearing the news of the Christians' capture of Alhamma, Abu Dawood immediately went to his student and on seeing him in grief said, "O Prince, didn't I tell you that destiny has chosen you and not Abul Hassan for the redevelopment of the Sultanate of Granada. The star of the fate of Muslims of Andalus will only shine when the Crown of Granada is placed over your head. O Prince! Your time is coming."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2ba46303fdd8f3ebff06b5bf056120d1">"God knows when my time will come. Alhamma has slipped out of our hands. Now, they can invade Granada anytime."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ba5d698b07233168cb5bd71cca079876">"But haven't you thought that after the fall of Alhamma, the people, as well as some chiefs have started to feel that at this crucial period it's important to make changes to the Emirate of Granada. I have already met a few Berber and Hispanian chiefs. They haven't specified a very high price for themselves."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3b9fe1fa85544defa6bf699ce8b42eb7">"But who would dare to do anything till Moosa is around?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0feed6cc5091bc6843e897961a5d6259">"When the time comes, we will deal with him too. If those chiefs who Abul Hassan has arrested for treason are set free, then they would prove to be a great support for you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="938ca4824aa1f0a9f22cf0190f4a42ac">"But this won't be possible during Moosa's presence."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5999df54f33bed63bf9e2db1af7a40f7">"I think he is your friend."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5f44951fad9978361937672085573d94">"But in this matter he will prove to be my worst enemy."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6b98b8d176bcb94371073ac3d7e95f42">"We'll see when the time comes."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6c1fabd67675626d8d45682019878b28">"When will the time come?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d114159a1f2d7cdbc09ebb6099dcdd16">"After Abul Hassan's defeat, the people of Granada will turn their attention towards you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b0f39d16c92d3650309489a4141159b3">"But what if he's victorious?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0ab951620042c349398b436cdd2d6cae">"I don't think that will happen. Victories are only your destiny but even if he gets a victory here or there, it would prove to be a foretelling of a huge disaster. He will try to put your stepbrother on the throne. The reason he took him along for the battle is because he wants him to be popular among the masses."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="657edee2ef5d3d8edc30cf401a94df82">"If that happens then I won't be in a position to fight with my father."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3a5bf834b8d0cd07d83603b0a4a03994">"Rest assured. The need to fight won't even arise."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f2fc7ce4888d8b20cc7697dafbd7e077">After a few days, later when Abu Abdullah heard the news of the destruction of Cordova's troops, he said to his teacher, "The emissary has brought the news that the Frontier Falcon has left for Loja as soon as he had completed his task at Cordova's front."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cdab5ff5dcb8d4cd7c76d537127a96f4">Abu Dawood said, "O Prince! Now that moment has arrived which I had feared the most. It's possible that Abul Hassan could become victorious at Loja's front. This victory could prove to be dangerous for your future. When the Sultan enters the city, the masses would support every decision of his, whether it is right or wrong. In their eyes the status of your stepbrother would be much higher than yours. Even a regular soldier who took part in the expedition would be more honorable than you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5436b4d3b7035a54c8c223703bf364de">A hopeless Abu Abdullah said, "I don't see any way out. When I listen to your talk, I get disturbed. My mind asks me to jump into a sea whose depths throbs my heart with fear but when I am with my mother her words take me into a very different world. Even today she assured me that my father has repeatedly sworn to fulfill the pledge of making me his successor."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9dfe7210ed70546f96e7e1ee005344a8">Abu Dawood said, "Maybe now the time has come that I should not let you have any misunderstanding. Please listen to me carefully. Let me assume for a while that your father's intentions regarding you are not negative. But, at the moment you are forty years of age. Assuming your father lives another twenty years, then, that would make you around sixty years old and this is that stage of life when aspirations fall cold. This is when a person is afraid of looking at himself in the mirror, when the greatest need for the person is a bed whether it be in a palace or a hut. No doubt, mentally, you would be extremely mature but that hot blood that compels man to conquer the world would become frozen...and who could say maybe in light of the events of the coming twenty years, the Sultan might decide something else for you. Prince! The door of honor, fame and glory is not such that you have a desire for it and it opens up. You have to knock on it and at times break it. There comes a critical moment in the lives of great men. Those who waste time in thinking are left behind. Their footprints get lost in the sands of time while those who are courageous enough, reach their goal. Although you have not told me what your heart desires, I know that you're longing to sit on the throne of Granada. So far if you did not have the courage to fulfill your life's ultimate dream, it is not because you respect your father...no...don't mind my saying but there is a fear in your heart. The fear of what the world would say about you, what <i>fatwa</i> would public give regarding you. But remember, this world calls a successful dacoit a conqueror and labels an unsuccessful reformer a rebel. If Abu Abdullah takes over Granada's throne and hoists the flag of his greatness all over Andalus, then the world will say that he is a fortunate son of an unfortunate father and that he had the right to seize the crown and throne from him. But if Abu Abdullah passes away while waiting to be crowned at the age of sixty or seventy, then, maybe the scrolls of history won't even have a mention of his name. I did not entwine my fate with yours thinking that you're any ordinary man, but if you want to waste your life in hesitation then from today our paths are separate."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="54436018a27191823b53a5f97b594a5f">Abu Abdullah said, "For God's sake don't say that."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b56733bdac0804f3fc66764bb647cae1">"Then, today you have to decide. This opportunity might not come again."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="45625861cce5dcb243274469b4a07f22">"I am ready but am I prepared enough to revolt against my father?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5dad1b1d019779dddc0562f3ed277472">"You were prepared even at the age of twenty but you have wasted away several years of your life. The police is in our hands. You have already bought the loyalties of the Palace Warden. Most of the Berber and Hispanic nobles are awaiting your orders. The treasury is in your hands. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="0fc6cb7b9b4ef327e625ce6713c7fdd0">"And Moosa?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bd79ca727c169d15fb099ba6aaa6e601">"Imprisoning him is not difficult."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="caf0ed82558a33d4a028415003a299c8">"What about the people of the city?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4e06f4a4ecb3a986f0dd2f0172026e6e">"Discord can be created among them. The flame of disunity between the Arabs, Hispanian and Berbers has simmered down but has not extinguished. I don't expect any support from the Arabs. Only a handful among them can be bought but if you suspend the Arab officials and appoint Hispanians and Berbers in their place, then, there would be two benefits in this move. First, they will support you and second is that a tussle will begin between the Berbers and Hispanian Muslims and the Arabs Muslims. They will support you just as they support their chiefs. To please them even more, you can release their prisoners. You have merely two days to arrive to a decision. After this, you might never lay hands on such an opportunity. I have conceived on how to have Moosa arrested."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e4b00b4a65a415cf9ebaa9f83719c071"><b>(2)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="18a15dcf01b8aa9a1dc8b7152395f988">At night, a spacious chamber of the Al-Hamra Palace was lit by lanterns of silver and gold. Granada's Berber and Hispanian Muslim nobles were seated on chairs talking with Abu Abdullah. Silence spread for a moment over the gathering as Moosa entered. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="4041428993466a702fd76222f837b9dc">Moosa ran a cursory glance at the attendees and came close to Abu Abdullah and whispered, "I would like to say something to you in private."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a1ca94b662f09741f6bf1ad109afd55b">Seeing his attitude Abu Abdullah became nervous, but after a second he gathered himself and said, "You can say whatever you have right here. By the grace of God all of them are Muslims."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="708b108318e1e830c8332a5c0f194e16">Moosa said, "Some things cannot be said in front of everyone."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c9ed1cec59324b05f06a4fc09a59b232">"But at the moment we are not ready to call off this assembly. If it is some important matter, then say it right here."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="864756a2bb3aa0877b0dd0f6b335660d">Moosa had already scrutinized the assembly. Most of those gathered were those who had been granted entry into the Al-Hamra Palace for the first time. To this date no noble of the Sultanate had dared to remain seated on seeing Moosa. Hearing Abu Abdullah's words, Moosa thought that his ears were failing him. His face blushed with anger and restraining himself said, "Prince, I have heard that you have released the rebels."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ec082b0680f915df6e920c1ffd54123c">"What you have heard is correct."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fb4c4ed2c5057b14e42df5549df9fdd1">"And that you have suspended a few loyal officials of the Sultanate?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="30b7c81d26884f075019e3ae507b8594">"I had reservations about their loyalties."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="db424cf44559f31545f65d5367d8fd7b">"And you have placed the worst traitors of Granada on very important posts."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0d71f00a3f80c84f60b75ad312034c03">Abu Abdullah thundered back and said, "Moosa, misbehaving with us is not one of your duties."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="414f8c40dd367d4e20642cb63fb03164">"At times the feeling of duty makes a person bold and outspoken."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3ca938eeea1e0dcec3d182a3fb38740d">"We do not appreciate such boldness and outspokenness. Why did you dare to enter the palace from its back door?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d5abee450d1425acc049304e7fd84ad0">"When the doors of Al-Hamra are opened to such devils then I am left with no choice but to have access to you from the back door."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2694f0c1eb87d8d805d61b96a82f8044">On hearing this, the nobles started whispering to each other and a Berber chief stood up and said, "Is the honor of Abu Abdullah's diehard supporters not even safe in his own court?"</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="d72988a18273153857043c1ed8d22745">Moosa turned towards him and said, "Who is it who claims to be a diehard supporter of Abu Abdullah more than me?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9e907e33202624aac829063448357cd3">Another chief stood up and said, "If the Crown Prince so commands, our swords are ever ready to shut the mouth of the disobedient." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="62a161f16184bf00df64efcc0c696be3">Moosa said in a voice trembling with rage, "How dare you! Aren't you the same traitor who pitched the Berbers against the Arabs? Do you think you have expiated your past crime just by reaching the Al-Hamra Palace from your prison cell? And you think that the metal of Moosa's sword would become soft by merely seeing a few traitors gathered at the Al-Hamra? I have come to Abu Abdullah and if anyone of you thinks that his sword can stop me from expressing my views in front of Abu Abdullah then I invite him to come forward. I would certainly like to see who is it who has come here with the desire of relieving the burden of his head from his neck. And Prince, you expect loyalty from these cowards who are ready to bite the flesh off of me but who would not even dare to place their hand over the handle of their swords? You consider the enemies of Granada to be your friends?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cd8df66e739ddac520ca43ba8f2feac8">By this time Abu Abdullah had lost his patience. He stood up from his place, came forward and said, "Moosa, have you come here with the intention of killing me?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8495eaab4a611100d743234a6a89029e">"I and the intention of killing you? What are you saying?" Saying this Moosa removed his sword and presented it to Abu Abdullah.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="55660609267870b4a9c7e34aebe9bf70">Abu Abdullah took the sword, tossed it to over to a side and clapped his hands. Eight armed Berbers and Negroes entered the chamber and waited for Abu Abdullah's cue. Abu Abdullah said, "I knew the highest security at Al-Hamra's gates won't stop you from getting here but let me assure you that you won't be able to leave through the same path you entered."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d1f99231228f045676b962fcf88c0655">A dumbfounded Moosa was staring at Abu Abdullah. The very Abu Abdullah whom he had spent his childhood with. He had taught him to mount a horse, play with a sword and lance. He was baffled what wrong he had committed. In the morning, Abu Abdullah had personally called him and ordered him to recruit volunteers from nearby cities and settlements. When he returned in the evening he came to know that Abu Abdullah had freed some rebels and suspended a few loyal officials. He got disturbed by this news, however, he was sure that after they had a discussion, he would be able to convince him to rectify his fault. He left home without eating. The doors of Al-Hamra were closed for him and new guards were posted at its gates. He entered the palace using a secret path. Before this, he had spoken to Abu Abdullah even more harshly on several occasions but today as soon as he entered the room he felt that his childhood friend had changed somewhat. When he had removed his sword and had presented it to him, he was confident that Abu Abdullah would grab him by his arm to the other room and say, "You got upset over such a trivial matter?" </p>
                          <p data-p-id="ead240f1a01567cc3634dc81ed2b50e4">However, when he took the sword and threw it to one side, his heart was torn. He was staring at him while these words echoed in his ears, "let me assure you that you won't be able to leave through the same path you entered." He looked at the armed soldiers and thought that Abu Abdullah was fooling around. That this was all a joke. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="7225e3cd1127c0089185b904475c24f6">While smiling he said, "Abu Abdullah! I am your criminal. I am guilty of recruiting volunteers for the Loja front. I am guilty of entering the palace using a secret entrance and I'm guilty of calling these traitors as traitors. My greatest crime is that I am your friend. Please recommend my punishment."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="82ba474147a364f4f9099d781816d803">Saying this Moosa bowed his head down. Abu Abdullah's eyes were filled with tears. He wanted to place his hand on his shoulder but someone came forward and held his hand. It was Abu Dawood.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="779b9683a4755be71737adf9f4a84ec5">Abu Abdullah looked at his teacher, who shook his head. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="a70ce350c68afe02ced65d697934e9dc">Abu Abdullah looked towards the soldiers and said remorsefully, "Take him away."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="73c8c0a4ecfc3a6e122bdabb6835038e">Moosa raised his head. He was standing between the bare swords of the soldiers and the chiefs who, so far, had doubted Abu Abdullah's steadfastness, had also drawn out their swords.  </p>
                          <p data-p-id="d69597efc9b95a26f72726a5d158b8e1">Moosa, whose thundering voice would unleash tremors in the walls of Hispania, was gaping at Abu Abdullah in a state of shock. The <i>mujahid</i> of Granada's tongue had gone mute. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="b627957f264c91e1967bb318b9f2d9c0">Abu Abdullah could not bear the sight. He looked the other way and shouted, "Take him away." However, his voice resonated more grief than anger. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="22945d917d5d4cbf86eeab85e63ae221">Moosa walked in front of the soldiers without uttering a word while Abu Abdullah entered the other room wiping his eyes with his handkerchief. Abu Dawood said to the chiefs, "Please stay here. I will be right back."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="01d3eb3e82ac8c2b518be6cef2de7dc9">Coming to the other room Abu Dawood said to his student, "Prince! Great men should also have a great heart."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="754c9c881d031b1cff6700015656cf0a">Abu Abdullah said in a voice drenched with pain, "But he was my friend. My childhood friend."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c1c50803205d0b2dafb808e8164d2614">Abu Dawood said, "He was a beautiful thorn in your path that you loved but to reach your destination you have to remove many such thorns. If Moosa wants, even now he can become a jewel of your crown and that can only be done when there is no other claimant to the Sultanate of Granada. When he's sure that you have taken Abul Hassan's place then he will have no objection in coming out of prison and serving you. Now get up. This is no time for thinking. This is the time to get work done."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="38560d3d403d928e8b6a1e4e8f9e93e1"><b>(3)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="d656e2c48feb950ef63696e5f1b76c4a">The next day after the victory of Loja, when Badr Bin Mughira returned after chasing Ferdinand's troops, Abul Hassan called in a consultative council of the chiefs of the army. Some chiefs were of the opinion to return to Granada, make proper preparations and then invade Ferdinand's kingdom. But Badr Bin Mughira emphasized that Ferdinand should not be allowed to rest. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="83eda212d5bb1a146ecfb064a1170069">He said, "If we were to invade right after this victory, the enemy would not be able to give us any worthy challenge in any field. No doubt we would be able to recruit a few thousand more troops if we return to Granada but we should not forget that our enemy's resources are far greater than ours. They will benefit more from this break. Not only the Christians of Andalus but also those who honor the Cross in France and Italy would come running to his aid and the greatest apprehension is that Ferdinand might avenge this defeat on his Muslim subjects, who even now are a lot less than the population of Granada. On the contrary, if we were to march forward immediately, then Muslims of every settlement of Andalus would support us, and that number would be far more than the troops we would be recruiting once we're in Granada. Our biggest challenge is maintaining a consistent supply of goods and provisions. And I take responsibility for that."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fa80ca322bc0253e44237ca3e5d5050f">Agreeing with Badr Bin Mughira's suggestions, Al-Zeghel said, "After this victory, we won't even face any stiff resistance upto the walls of Castile. We should not give the crumbling enemy any chance to stabilize. As far as getting more soldiers from Granada is concerned, I think there is not a more suitable person than Moosa."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="15629c75dcf7dbcd721994a3b2fb7699">An elderly chief said, "I too support the fact that we should move forward instead of returning backwards but my opinion that the Sultan should hand over this mission to Al-Zeghel and return to Granada. In past centuries, during such situations, discord at home has caused us immense damage. There is no doubt that Moosa is an able young man but when it comes to Granada, the sense of security we get with the presence of the Sultan in Granada cannot be compared with anyone else. Miscreants might try to take advantage of the Sultan's absence but no one would dare raise their head while he is present there."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="86aba52769bb3b49f70be2a3bb6d5f7b">Abul Hassan replied, "I am satisfied with the situation in Granada. However, I won't reject your advice. I promise to return after another glorious victory."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="85dfd98a29901d3f897a7e51c6699697">Before the evening prayers, the consultative council decided to depart the following morning. The next morning Abul Hassan gave the following speech in front of his troops:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="37a31b4a8d88da68efb2e6bb13e1a90b">"O <i>Mujahideen</i>! I see the glorious victory at Loja a great reward of destiny. This is a proof to the fact that if the Muslims of Granada were to unite, they can, even today, smash every force of the infidels and if they were to rise with the passion for <i>jihad</i>, their metal, even today, could cut any other metal. This victory has opened the highway to other successes and if we don't despair then I assure you that that day is not far when our flag would be hoisted, once again, over the parliaments of Cordova and Seville."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ea85c29f0f6eb81e2d2e9861a0e568b4">"You must be knowing that the first <i>mujahid</i> of Islam to this country, Tariq Bin Ziyad, came with a group of a handful of men. The orders given to him by his general were only to survey the situation of the country and return. But as soon as he set foot on the shores of Hispania, this <i>mujahid</i> changed his decision and sent back this message to his general: 'I have already hoisted the flag of Islam on the shores of Andalus and until this flag does not reach to the end of Andalus' limits, I will not look back. You have sent me here to assess the strength of Rodrick. With my pace of advancement you will be able to assess his actual might.' Tariq had told his warriors that they had not come to Rodrick's land to pierce the flag of their greatness but they had come to a land of God to raise the banner of His greatness. He said, 'we are few in numbers, but the secret of Muslims' strength lies not in their numbers but rather in their faith and purity of intentions.'" </p>
                          <p data-p-id="90f74dabbec0bffddec7d813004c8e72">"My brave soldiers! Today we have decided to walk in the footsteps of Tariq. Do you support our decision?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c6838fbb410ee0025fc8b4408cad2592">The soldiers supported Abul Hassan's call by raising a thunderous cry. After silencing them with a hand gesture, Abul Hassan continued his speech:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f08f6065dc0f33db90d7eb4979863ae4">"In the battle of Loja you have proved to your enemy that a single sword of yours can challenge ten of theirs. This victory has opened the doors of our successes. The time has arrived for the prayers of our oppressed brethren in Aragon and Castile to be answered. There is not a doubt that if we return back to Granada for a few days, we will be able to participate in the celebration of victory. People will shower us with flowers. But if we head towards Cordova and Seville, then, our brothers and sisters, who have been enduring Christian excesses for years, with the hope that one day the <i>mujahids</i> of Granada would come to their aid would welcome us over there with tears of gratitude, instead of flowers."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0462a29d613ac704c379abb720fae5a4">"A few days from today, who had hoped that nature would bestow such a great victory upon us and after this victory who can say that after a few days our <i>Aathaans</i> would not be echoed in the mosques of Cordova and Seville and our flag won't flutter on the Royal Assembly of Castile."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="eb6354cd04b6457ce780090f7a6d0daa">Abul Hassan's speech was infusing new lamps of hope and fervor in the hearts of every soldier. They were seeing the assemblies of Cordova and Seville in their imaginations. They were hoisting the flag of victory over the Royal Assembly of Castile. After several years, they were seeing the tears of gratitude in the eyes of enslaved Muslims. They were saying to their oppressed Muslim brothers and sisters, "Now, you are free. Now, no one can enslave us. Andalus is ours. We regret that we were negligent to your plight for so long."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="335cfb05f845ac6803603d0fbde42bb6">But Abul Hassan suddenly stopped speaking. For a while his attention was diverted towards a horseman who was approaching closer as he galloped in full speed. The horseman dismounted his horse and without uttering a word, made his way forward by shoving people here and there. A soldier tried to stop him by grabbing his arm but he freed it with a jerk and continued advancing forward as usual.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8fb72ba25c53874afce54f94a15013f0">When the people realized that he wanted to go to Abul Hassan, they started parting away, giving him way. Abul Hassan's heartbeats were giving testimony to the fact that the horseman had not arrived with any good news. So, he stopped the newcomer by a hand gesture and restarted his speech to regain the people's attention.</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="5e7921d3b9ba77514c379397ad4f8a4c">Al-Zeghel, who was standing next to Abul Hassan, came towards the new newcomer and said, "Have you come from Granada?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="47bbac463dee6f9fc83cc649948b4489">The newcomer replied, "Yes! I have come with an important piece of news."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="045eddc897faf9ce8b38f9f4b4d4b5f0">"Have you been sent by Moosa?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="48f0a875f1bba6e801c27d7f9dc6e6ba">"No. I have come on my own."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="07d2972fec4cecbac9766702980ddf8e">"If you have not come through Moosa, then, your news can't be important and you should have given consideration to the fact that this assembly was being addressed by the Sultan of Granada."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="47beb539d0721bc01f5f11ff160e79f8">"But when you come to know the circumstances in which I have come, then, you will certainly forgive my audacity."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="72307f2975d488ff42de14a5ca330dfb">Al-Zeghel said, "Go ahead. Say what you have to."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e116d783bdb0c1ac46a359fe57bbf6fc">After looking around the newcomer said, "Not here."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ffafebb7f4e7af54b7fbd0956ffb531e">Sounding upset, Al-Zeghel said, "Come along with me."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="befc8eba6d4394217d782146f87c7676">Moving aside from the crowd, Al-Zeghel looked at the newcomer and said, "Before giving me any bad news tell me who you are first, so that I can weigh how important this is and also remind myself that people who spread rumors during wartime are dealt with severely."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6b46a9c80c149445aac7facdef5ef3e8">The newcomer said, "Had you looked carefully, you would have recognized me. I am the son of the Palace Warden of Al-Hamra. I am a student of Habeera Bin Saeed. For a few days I had been propagating <i>jihad</i> with Moosa...</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8159969c6eb0ef15939adb7781e6f173">A lot of the men here in the army recognize me, but if the terrible news that I have come here with were to be proved wrong, then, I would be more than happy to get hanged. I pray that my coming here is merely a dream and whatever I have seen and heard in Granada is also a dream." Tears were rolling down the newcomer's eyes.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e48112337064cd4ac4d749666b9cd16e">Meanwhile, Al-Zaghairi approached close to them. He recognized the youth from a distance and said, "Sulaiman! I hope all is well?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="801c13cce8d9c11fab8adc8e56519035">Sulaiman looked at Al-Zaghairi for a moment then turned his attention back to Al-Zeghel, "I have come with terrible bad news. There has been a revolt in Granada."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d1df2dae869f3bd05eaa1e2f4660de59">Al-Zeghel cried out and said, "No! No! You must have dreamt. A revolt in Moosa's presence is impossible. You have dreamt. You are a spy of the enemy and want to distract us from the war front. Say that this is a lie." A distraught Al-Zeghel was shaking Sulaiman by holding both his arms. And Sulaiman was repeatedly saying again and again, "If only this was a lie. But it is not a lie. If only it were a lie."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3f74c99db15d2d46cf839e055535aa6f">"But Moosa and revolt? This is impossible. You are insane."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fc6d0646ef105d0648a3ec1916b4ead4">Sulaiman said, "Moosa has been imprisoned by Abu Abdullah."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3086dcb97486d5d244a1f114115b36c0">Al-Zeghel pushed Sulaiman to the ground and said to Al-Zaghairi, "Take him away. He is insane. Abu Abdullah can kill me, put his father in prison but he can die for Moosa. Take this insane man away."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e918f85afe7cb62ca069f0c32aed59c1">Sulaiman said, "By today evening there will be more people coming, confirming the news I have given you. Abu Abdullah has announced his emirate. He has released the rebels and appointed them in the positions of the Arab officials. Some of those emirs who refused to recognize his emirate have been killed and the rest imprisoned. Hispanian and Berber emirs have taken over the Al-Hamra and they are making the people of their tribes fight the Arabs in the city. I can't say how many houses have been burned and how many people have been killed. I am afraid this fire must have also spread to other nearby settlements around Granada."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fad3d57b4bef0f4ad55dff54679164a3"><b>(4)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="bcacbdf683e6fb6df0b4d3591953424d">Abul Hassan could not continue his speech for long. Every now and then his attention was diverted towards Al-Zeghel and Al-Zaghairi and when they were approaching him with heads bowed down, after talking to Sulaiman, his heart started throbbing and his voice plunged. By looking at Al-Zeghel's face it was not difficult to assess that the messenger had not come with any good news. He ended his speech, raised his hands and supplicated for victory and looked towards Al-Zeghel with answer-seeking glances. </p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="46d373a438e4fa3f06c74a783f8dc132">Al-Zeghel moved forward and said, "Let us go!"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c6017155acfdb9c6b1ebdfe726bb613d">Abul Hassan said, "Where? Is everything okay?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f9a6ad5a0b1a92fcb54212d757566004">"Let us go to your tent."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bba5fced8b6f0044558175178dc9790e">With Al-Zeghel's grief-stricken voice Abul Hassan's heart kept sinking. He got off the stage and walked with him towards the tent. A few chiefs wanted to join him but gesturing with his hand Al-Zeghel stopped them and said, "You all gather in my tent. We will be there shortly."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c07f79d13dab5f638ac5c5ad1237ff22">After covering a short distance, Abul Hassan enquired, "Before giving me any bad news at least let me know where this messenger has arrived from. After such a great victory we should not be disturbed by trivial incidents. Tell me, what's the matter? Your silence is becoming unbearable for me."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="defc1674f782de5d3f03d1429cb472bd">Al-Zeghel did not reply. Sulaiman, who was still standing there, joined them after a cue from Al-Zeghel.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ef624a0338d06e479574215bb6913b2c">Abul Hassan moved his attention towards Sulaiman and said, "Where have you come from? Stop staring at me and tell me. Have you not come with the news that a city or village near the border has fallen from our grip and the Christians are avenging their defeat from the Muslims of that place?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="665289ab7d9f00911c8ec65f3f17b533">Instead of replying, Sulaiman looked at Al-Zeghel, who gestured by shaking his head to remain silent.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1946fff875321ac068f6c2d6521ca3a3">Abul Hassan could not bear it anymore. He yelled and said, "Al-Zeghel! Haven't we been breastfed by the same mother? Don't I have the courage to bear the news that you have just heard? Has this messenger come with the news of an earthquake? Has a fire broken out it Al-Hamra? Did Abu Abdullah have an accident? By God, any such news won't be able to disturb me and if this messenger has arrived with the news that some Christian troops have taken over an unguarded fort of ours near the border then you could have given me this news in front of the army. To face this new scenario, we could have delayed our decision to march forward by a day. Al-Zeghel! Why has your tongue gone mute? Tell me what crisis has befallen that the swords of these <i>mujahideen</i> can't compensate? Which palace has fallen that these <i>mujahideen</i> cannot rebuild? The greatest wealth of a general are his soldiers. Besides Moosa and Abdullah, the people who are dearest to me are with me. Nobody's death will be unbearable for me. Didn't you see that there was not a trace of tear in my eyes when Naeem Ridwan was being lowered into the grave, although he was no less dear to me that Abdullah?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="92ed0fc39a104a3ffe963a4e07f7635b">Meanwhile, Abul Hassan's tent came near. A pessimistic Abul Hassan was pacing swiftly towards the tent. After entering the tent and seating him on the chair, Al-Zeghel said, "My brother! This messenger has come with the news of a great calamity. Abu Abdullah has announced his emirate and after releasing the rebels he has started a civil war in the city. The gates of Granada have been closed for us. Moosa is in Abdullah's custody."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e476792b848507194a80bb6db4ae12a7">These words fell upon Abul Hassan like lightening. He suddenly got up only to tremble back into his seat. He tried to speak but became tongue-tied. He stared at Al-Zeghel and Sulaiman with wide-eyed glances. He was reading the writings of his fate on their melancholy faces.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9e0e0e21751a7fc7934141427c40dbbb">Al-Zeghel said, "Now, I can't understand how I should break this news to the army. We can't even hide this news for long. More people will arrive today before the evening. I fear, like Granada, here too the swords of Arabs and non-Arabs soldiers might clash against each other. The chiefs of the army are gathering in my tent. First, get their oath of allegiance and then unravel the news to them. Today, only if Moosa were here. Don't be pessimistic. I am sure the news of the victory at Loja would once again rejuvenate the flames of faith among the people of Granada. They will revolt against Abu Abdullah and open the gates of the city for us. Get up and be brave! This is no time to think!"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ef06bd9c900b91a895db7e80e68618ef">Abul Hassan's lips were moving but his voice was lost. Sulaiman whispered, "Call in the physician. The Sultan is not well."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c146ead5f4e1fba741ad319e2fa7cd5e">Al-Zeghel bowed and looked at his brother and quickly went out and said to the guard, "Call Bashir Bin Hassan immediately. He must be taking care of the wounded. Tell him that the Sultan is not well. But say this in private. Not in front of anyone."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="aa9259c662de72ff2d829b5ebccc939b">After a while Bashir Bin Hassan entered the tent. After looking at the Sultan's condition he said to Al-Zeghel, "He has had a paralysis attack but it's not a severe one. God willing, he'll soon be fine. It seems that he has received a big shock."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4e1d8cddfa0d7c2d9f336c22517f104f"><b>(5)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="cad20cbc08c467d848f8a6901aee5b16">After a while Al-Zeghel said to Sulaiman, "Go and take some rest but don't reveal this matter to anyone." Then he turned his attention towards Bashir Bin Hassan and said, "If my presence is not required here, then, I would like to be excused for a while."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a30a5a7ee524568ead81684a67b5f0bc">Bashir Bin Hassan said, "The Sultan's glances are frozen on you. I think your absence from here for a while would be better for him. His attention could be diverted to something else."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d244dc4fc0a303cd6c93819e6e1350a8">When Al-Zeghel entered his tent, all the high ranking army officials were gathered there. They had surrounded Al-Zaghairi and were pounding him with questions while he was repeatedly yelling back and saying, "I don't know. Sulaiman wanted to say something only to the Sultan."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e90b711752ce69ed377d8b231d80a1bc">Everyone became silent on seeing Al-Zeghel. After a while Al-Zeghel left the tent once he had taken an oath of allegiance and after breaking the awful news of Granada to them. The chiefs also moved in the direction of their respective tents. By noon, this news was known to the entire army and a little before evening a few men arriving from Granada had also confirmed this news. The very soldiers who moments ago were dreaming of raising their flag over the Royal Palace of Castile and given <i>Aathan</i> in the mosques of Seville and Cordova, were now contemplating on how to save their homes from destruction. The very poets who had penned ballads praising the <i>mujhahideen</i> of Loja were now writing elegies of Abu Abdullah's treachery and betrayal. After a brief smile the star of fate of Andalus became oblivious into the clouds of misfortune. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="c07598c428e2d652f461faa609935153">The next day, with Bashir Bin Hassan's messiahship, Abul Hassan regained his lost voice. His first words were, "O my son! What have you done? The throne that you tried to snatch was actually yours but your desire to become king has destroyed the future of the Muslims of Andalus. I pray to God what you have sown will not be reaped by the Muslims of Andalus. My son! My Abdullah! But you are not mine." Abul Hassan tossed, hid his face in the pillow and sobbed. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="1c56260413092459bef6edaadfbbdf5d">After a couple of days, the effects of paralysis withered away from him, but even at the age of sixty, the spark of life that was the envy of every youth had become cold. Just one accident had reduced this sword-toying <i>mujahid</i> into someone who was compelled to walk with the support of a cane. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="fd35ca9fced9029a06f138fe05ef34ad">The majority of the chiefs of the army's decision was to move towards Granada and send a delegation to Abu Abdullah after encamping at a city close to it. They opinioned, "If he does not come to the right path, then, there would be no other option but to fix his crookedness with the swords. God forbid, if the need arises to go to war then the people of the city would certainly rise against Abu Abdullah. The only remedy to the ill-feeling spreading among the soldiers due to the tumultuous events in Granada is to take over the Sultanate immediately otherwise it wouldn't come as a surprise if Abu Abdullah allies himself with the Christians and we are left nowhere."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e1dda5c0966c52d75d1e733e8d488afd">Abul Hassan agreed with this decision but before departing an incident happened that broke his back.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7af66d7dc1e9ba7fea6f5fe098bc8ce6">A day before Abul Hassan decided to leave for Granada, a group of a few horsemen from Granada met Abul Hassan and after speaking a lot of ill about Abu Abdullah assured Abul Hassan that they were ready to spill the last drop of their blood for his sake and even the people under their influence in Granada were waiting for Abul Hassan to arrive. Abul Hassan treated them with great respect and dignity but after staying with Abul Hassan's army for four days, they had succeeded in their designs. Abu Dawood had sent them to create a rift among Abul Hassan's troops. They first provoked the Arabs saying that their brothers were being killed at the hands of Berbers and native Muslims. Then they said to the Berber and native Muslims that Abu Abdullah's government would be a mercy for them. He had suspended high ranking Arab officials and appointed ones from their people. It would be in their best interest to go to Granada and swear allegiance to Abu Abdullah. To some of the chiefs they offered high offices and to the ones who wouldn't fall to any fraud, they would coerce them by saying that any official who sided with Abul Hassan, his family and friends in Granada would face the severest of punishments at the hands of Abu Abdullah. The loyalties of those lower in the hierarchy was bought with gold and silver. They carried out this task so cleverly that Abul Hassan's loyalist didn't even get a clue of it. First, they looked for those people who were already under their influence. Then, with their assistance they kept deluding the others. </p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="6e51e06859172e37d014830af96224c4">One evening Abul Hassan's army encamped at a distance of twenty miles away from Granada. In the third part of the night Abul Hassan got to know that eight thousand of his army's Berbers and Hispania were deserting and leaving towards Granada.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="690b36d9a9426627ca1655869344d3d8">Al-Zeghel entered Abul Hassan's tent as soon as he got the news of this development. After a while a few more officials of the army gathered there. Al-Zeghel's advised to block the path of the traitors and make them understand. And if they refused to listen, then war should be waged against them. Some chiefs agreed while some disagreed. Finally, Abul Hassan said in a feeble voice drenched in grief and sorrow, "Let them go. For as long as I live, I will not permit the swords of Muslims to clash with one another."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bca7d75901d04f90100d590203051276">After facing such drastic events, Sultan Abul Hassan moved towards Malaga. The ruler of Malaga had already announced his revolt against Abu Abdullah. He received the Sultan with great enthusiasm and emptied his palace for him. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="91ce5df3acbc575e861274fee6ac12fb">In a few days, chiefs from the nearby areas came to their Sultan pronouncing their allegiance to him. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="3dc4852039d06a1ad1537ecc868611b7">The very Sultanate whose people only a few months ago had risen to conquer all of Andalus was now divided into two. Granada and the suburbs was under Abu Abdullah's control while Abul Hassan's government was in Malaga.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a4a53d5f7d66177da90f11884870f927">The amount of grief Ferdinand had of his defeats was less than the immense happiness he had of Abu Abdullah's revolt and so he started preparing to deliver a final blow to Abul Hassan.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9e19759ee26e1600b92e668d3f345a40"><b>(6)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="1aec59eb8455b620fca088443cf6e5a4">Maybe Abul Hassan would never have given up hope no matter how major a defeat he would have taken at the hands of the enemy. But this failure, whose reason was his own son, was unbearable for him. He was no longer interested in his present nor in his past. His brother and his diehard supporters kept consoling him. Gradually, he declined to see people wishing to meet him. In isolation he would spend most of his time shedding tears. Little by little he started loosing vision.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="87c1827e784ee97ea59190bd72a7e36c">One day Al-Zeghel and Badr Bin Mughira entered his room. When Al-Zeghel started the conversation by talking about his own future course of action, the Sultan said tearfully, "O my brother! Talk about something apart from this. We can fight with the enemy but not with our fate."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8854a22c9f281ea0becaea63af75fa4a">Badr Bin Mughira replied, "The <i>mujahid</i> carves out his destiny with the point of his sword."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="62165af08b34fe24c10671470b9265b8">Abul Hassan replied, "But my sword has been broken."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="eeac63ec9aae4937ff6bae7f498d15a8">Badr said, "You should not despair. In this world, every great man has to face such events."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cb8a4e8b50bbbe15d95eff5f8e614996">"Don't drag those beings in the line of great men whose son is Abdullah. Go and leave me in isolation for I have nothing to offer but tears." Saying this, the Sultan turned his face the other way. Bashir Bin Hassan tiptoed into the room and whispered, "The Sultan's condition is not good. Your talk would only aggravate his physical and spiritual condition. The only remedy for him is to bring Abdullah onto the right path."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bcb0b154b9148f7840c178b818db5cd6">Badr Bin Mughira looked at Al-Zeghel and said, "Abdullah can be brought to the right path."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="00e995a9008c2a26234a3e57ffb85680">The Sultan gave a startled look at Badr Bin Mughira and said remorsefully, "If only someone could make him understand but he is not one of those who would."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2a337f854b6997266aca95baa1db056f">Badr Bin Mughira said, "He would be compelled to."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="003b2f4055e8d39514d8fa5efe500ac7">"But I do not want a civil war among Muslims."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e8360e909ab1bc1b99f5bef609ea9022">Badr Bin Mughira said, "In a few days if he tries to have the correct assessment of his strength against ours, then it would not reach a point for a civil war among Muslims."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c1de4ca4d163441fd75d1dceb631c59c">After this meeting, Al-Zeghel, Badr Bin Mughira, Al-Zaghairi and other army officials decided, in a council, to restructure the army from scratch.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5e50cd33dd0d8af959b90f4e4205c5f6">Al-Zeghel sent a delegation to specific chiefs of the entire Sultanate. Badr Bin Mughira's fighters grouped into small bands and began propagating <i>jihad</i>.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="421d2003d8e7a2b7568fd926441299e6">Badr Bin Mughira personally left Malaga with five hundred of his fighters and reached the suburbs of Granada where he started the mission of mustering public opinion against Abu Abdullah.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="872e987c7fd80ac8de64947fa82a350e">Abu Abdullah's troops tried to block their path but in vain. There were minor skirmishes at a few places between Abu Abdullah's troops and Badr Bin Mughira's cavalry where Badr Bin Mughira's cavalry defeated them and left them in the vicinity of the four walls of Granada.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9303e247b220fa07ff2984044f34476f">After a few weeks of running around, Badr Bin Mughira, with the cooperation of the people living in the settlements near Granada, was able to completely cut-off all routes leading to it. The farmers also cooperated with him. They refused to send their produce to Granada. Seeing the effects of drought in the city, the people of Granada's suppressed resentment against Abu Abdullah gradually began to emerge and some of them began fleeing towards Malaqa. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="306a3ef0526f58375efef817867581a4">Feeling the sensitivity of the situation, Abu Abdullahsent five thousand troops to crush the Frontier Falcon but after a week helearned that two thousand out of them had joined Badr Bin Mughira while therest, after being defeated, burned a few settlements of the farmers and were ontheir way back.  <br/></p></pre>
</div>
</body>
</html>
