<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 14: Al-Zeghel's Hopelessness</title>
  </head>
  <body><div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e"><br/></p>
                          <p data-p-id="e7fcf8e49e39af3c66af246fdcf535df">             </p>
                          <p data-p-id="26478db11a74b3c8675f463fee30cba7"><br/></p>
                          <p data-p-id="7acce3193127d4b71a6c2b140c22dc95">(1)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="49dcc6375df8ae3cdc8abe8299be0ad1">Badr Bin Mughira was residing in a mountainous fort. One evening, as he was standing and giving instructions to the soldiers and officers gathered around him in the fort's courtyard, a horse rider galloped into the fort. He pulled the reins and halted his horse at a few distance away from Badr Bin Mughira. Badr Bin Mughira took two or three steps forward and said, "Bashir! It seems that you have not come with any good news."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="29fd0d74bafcfa827e9aa383e336a377">Bashir Bin Hassan dismounted the horse and after shaking hands with Badr Bin Mughira said, "The people of Granada would be happy with the news I have but I take it as a cause for serious concern. Where is Mansoor?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bd4b0f3f94a0d3195963c49913b4afaa">"He just went to his room after offering his prayers. Today it's his turn. He must be getting ready. Come on, let's go to him." Saying this he turned to the soldiers and said, "You will get the instructions after <i>Isha</i> prayers."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="12b8e3e58e3da1d96bff309270fbb833">After climbing the stairs, Badr and Bashir entered a room on the second story of the building. A candle was lit in the room and a cuirass-clad Mansour was tying the laces of his socks with his leg on a chair. On seeing Bashir Bin Hassan, he stepped forward, extended his hand for a handshake and said, "Bashir! It is very good that you came. Just now I was thinking who would treat me in case I am injured tonight."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8654c0cb9d278015b8f3a041369fad35">Bashir Bin Hassan said, "Castile's armory has yet to make a sword that would be able to injure Mansour."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="981ff7cbe8e82388f5faea251aa40cea">The three of them sat on the chairs. Mansour asked Bashir Bin Hassan, "The people of Granada must very worried about our veiled companion?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="da18e613b21bf1205ad75915bbd6d40f">"Yes, now in every gathering the Frontier Falcon's place has been taken by the frontier's veiled man!"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ab892cd2aa820e49952d412c61ae9c4b">"So they are still convinced about Badr's death?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7ad82c41de6a772dae8b5e91c2ef00fc">Some of the army officers suspect that he is still alive. There were many others who wanted to dig out information from me but I used to remain quiet after saying that a <i>mujahid</i> is ever-living."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="01acc0128971bf4753d078d67908146d">Badr said, "Okay now tell us that news that the people of Granada were happy about while you were concerned."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1e2e7725e3078292d8268909218965dd">Bashir said, "Abu Abdullah has escaped from Ferdinand's captivity and has reached Granada and Al-Zeghel has announced that he will handover the throne to his nephew as soon as he has dealt with the external threats. Currently he has been designated as the ruler of Loja."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e21aa53b8df2be1503be81f80408f2bf">Badr Bin Mughira said, "Is this true? Al-Zeghel cannot make this mistake."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e1307adef289dd8e3e53b3a8cd0613a3">Bashir said, "If this is a mistake, then Al-Zeghel has made it. I had met Abu Mohsin. He was saying that before attacking the border, he was preparing to take refuge with Ferdinand. The circumstances compelled him to stand in the ranks of the volunteers. I do not doubt his intentions but he is an erratic minded youth. To give him a responsibility in the current scenario would not be without danger. Besides this, it can be said about Abu Dawood that he is with Ferdinand and he is such a man who can manipulate Abu Abdullah to do the worst of deeds."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bc82fa4b953b337782a3e327c96cbb88">Badr Bin Mughira enquired, "And the people of Granada are happy about this?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8885dffcd80a3226fa6b6dbffbec4073">"Yes. In their sight, Abu Abdullah has washed away his sins. There are many people who are restless but they too are not willing to take any practical steps for opposition."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f085c21321fd7e53f737bf7299f4bf5a">"What about their concern for Moosa. Has that been addressed?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4aa7607801efb719bb92622d22eead29">"What Abu Abdullah has made known about him is that he had escaped from his custody. He had produced some witnesses in front of Al-Zeghel."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e037f44b8fec2b62b769125e0a191735">"And Al-Zeghel believed this?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="957dbc85600eb07ea56f7f3b81351a34">"I told him that if he had escaped, he would have surely come to you but Al-Zeghel said, 'Abu Moosa was a very proud man and Abu Abdullah was his childhood friend. It's possible that after Abu Abdullah's misbehavior he did not see it appropriate to show his face to anyone in Granada. Maybe he might have gone to Morocco. Many of his family members have immigrated to Morocco. I am searching for him and if I find out that Abu Abdullah has lied to me then he would not get a good treatment.'"</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="89df30b620f0e50e2b7e39a2f411a483">Badr Bin Mughira thought for a while and said, "Mansour! Prepare to leave for Granada!"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="793c7c09d8a54d07c982d9bc4334a4e0">Mansour replied, "But I have already prepared for the attack and the troops must be waiting for me at the border."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0f8a78cd176fc919320416f4156ac10b">"I will go instead of you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bbdbf8c598dd4012fd230e7f26f82df0">"But you need to rest. You have been on the horse all night."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3de585986cd63b0450856edcc4ff005d">"It is important for you to go to Granada immediately. Take my letter to Al-Zeghel. Convey my message unequivocally that our war was not for a sultan, emir or king. The sole purpose of our sacrifices was to make Granada a defense bastion and gather our scattered bunch and to relieve the oppressed Muslims of Andalus from the slavery of the Christians. Therefore, we had first accepted Abul Hassan and then Al-Zeghel as our emir for this purpose. But Abu Abdullah has been tested. As an uncle Al-Zeghel has every right to forgive every fault of his incompetent nephew but he cannot be given the right to say that this nation seller has repented therefore accept him as your leader. Tell Al-Zeghel that even if Abu Abdullah has repented with utmost sincerity, even then he is a lifeless corpse and a nation that is between life and death should not be burdened with this corpse. He should fulfill his duties while he is alive and after him he should leave the choice of selecting a leader to those who have sacrificed their lives for Granada's liberty and the dignity of the Muslims. I have no hostility towards Abu Abdullah. He deceived me and then tried to kill me. I can forgive him but I am against handing over the trust of the people to someone who has already deceived them. To show a proof of a change of heart if Abu Abdullah has expelled a few border attackers then the maximum recompense should have been that he should not have been punished for his past mistakes but making him the ruler of Loja and accepting him as the successor of Granada's throne is a reward he no way deserves."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f9178f89ca586ce6918d2091fc5c46d1">Mansour said, "I know what Al-Zeghel's reply would be. He will say, 'Had he not been generous with his treatment towards Abu Abdullah, the people would have said that my struggle was for personal gains. Apart from this, I'm afraid of turmoil. Abu Abdullah's supporters would start a civil war in Granada.'"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="089881417bc88f76a2ca1b16eeb26acf">Badr Bin Mughira said, "What would be a more generous treatment with Abu Abdullah that he has not been dragged into the markets of Granada with a noose around his neck. Tell Al-Zeghel not to give any weight to such people whose self-deceit is such that they want to build a nation with a tried and tested traitor. And unity does not mean that you tie a horse and donkey to the same coach. If fifty soldiers carry the corpse of fifty soldiers on their shoulders, they do not become a hundred soldiers. To stop a civil war you do not need to handover Granada at the hands of incompetent men but the remedy is to create a general opinion so that the incompetent people wouldn't dare lay their eyes on the seats of power. A nation that wishes to survive crushes it traitors. It does not please them with bribes."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ebdcc28fe16e0810769c34668dddc9d2">Mansour said, "Write the letter. I am ready to go to Granada."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e4b00b4a65a415cf9ebaa9f83719c071">(2)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b979f20491625160d8d378711b592269">After a few days, Mansour brought a reply from Al-Zeghel for Badr Bin Mughira. It said:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5beb8080c24f52bab533f89aae2931a8">"My dear! I received your letter after Abu Abdullah had served his last blow on us. Abu Abdullah has handed over Loja to the enemy. Eight thousand of Ferdinand's troops have entered this city. My intentions were not bad but maybe nature does not forgive political mistakes. I have nothing but tears of regret in front of you and in front of the nation. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="181c4eef261cb536bafa55340c0beb81">The capture of Loja by the Christians is no less than a stab in our chest. Maybe Granada's days are numbered. If you were with me, maybe I would not have made this blunder and now a heart-broken old man is in need of your help. Not for me but for Granada. Not for safeguarding the crown and throne of Granada but for the respect and dignity of the Muslims.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="143355e3c497f6f20948327642604083">At the moment I would not call you to Granada for my aid. You are Granada's last hope. You are the last support of this sinking boat and I want you to be safe from evil. The valley of the falcon is our last bastion. If you increase your attacks on the border, the enemy will divide its attention on two fronts and I will try to recapture Loja.</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="70d80dcbefee2f0a5dbeb6c54aae6752">I think Ferdinand considers the valley of the falcons no less vital than Granada. It's quite possible that he could attack your territory before attacking Granada.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="03d62752e0fdc30ff9d85cc3bb7042ff">So, speed up your preparations. My son! I hope you would not be disheartened because of our faults. If you become hopeless then I'm afraid the flame of hope for Muslims in Andalus would vanish before the peep of the morning."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f9e37c092f3118b875ac5f4826acc624">In a very melancholy environment Badr Bin Mughira, Bashir and Mansour discussed the future of the Muslims of Granada and Andalus in the light of Al-Zeghel's letter for a while. Then, Mansour Bin Ahmed pulled out another letter from his pocket, presented it to Badr Bin Mughira and said, "This letter was given to me by Abu Abdullah's wife and she requested me not to present it to you unless your anxiety concerning Loja is not settled. She also expressed the concern that you might tear up the letter believing that she was defending her husband."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fbf9a708e5df904f878cbd034add48b1">Badr Bin Mughira took the letter from Mansour's hand and handed it over to Bashir and said, "Read it out."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a8d65e22cfc7ab8663dab6e5877b6f5c">Bashir opened the letter and started reading it:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6b137ba18f042c075dca88f75b989152">"My Respect-worthy brother! With the permission of uncle I had read your letter and uncle had also shown me his reply to your letter. He has taken the entire blame on himself. The truth is that the major blame of this national sin is mine. Had I not convinced uncle that my husband has repented sincerely, he would have surely tested him completely before trusting him. The Queen put in a good word for her son and I seconded her and now I am writing this letter to you so that you don't have any doubt about uncle's intentions. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="1cb2d32aa73db7d861b83c6d8d57d100">I am one of the thousands of your sisters of Andalus for whom you have raised the sword to safeguard their dignity and believe me that I have more trust in your sword than the four walls of Al-Hamra. After shedding tears of regret, can a sister of yours hope for forgiveness from you, that you will forgive her first and last mistake and God is a witness that when I call you brother I feel that our relation is stronger than the relation of blood."  </p>
                          <p data-p-id="3c091cd1bdfb7377c9e918369827a574"> Your Sister, Aisha.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2ef6a59784be170b18f79606c464cc60">Badr Bin Mughira looked towards Mansour and asked, "So this means Abu Abdullah's wife is still in Granada?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1fef5f8edde415985cf56391bd9428ee">"Yes. Abu Abdullah was adamant to take her along but his mother said that her daughter-in-law should not go out of Al-Hamra until the danger of war prevails."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="38560d3d403d928e8b6a1e4e8f9e93e1">(3)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fee2fd95b7aebb5aa221fa05c7829c05">Fifteen thousand Christian troops had gathered in Loja. Abu Abdullah sent his spies to different cities of Granada and started the mission of buying out the hypocrites with the wealth given by Ferdinand. Those who had associated their hopes with Ferdinand from the beginning itself, had now become even more hopeful and Abu Abdullah's power increased with each day.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="31971c5f315304016c72944ac479ce2a">Apart from this, the peace-loving group that wanted peace at all cost began propagating that if the Muslims of Granada continue their war with the Christians, then Muslims in the rest of Andalus would have to bear the repercussions. They opinioned, "Andalus is a combined nation of Christians and Muslims and since the Christians are greater in number and power therefore we should accept their leadership. They would certainly not harm their fellow citizens. It's the imagination of the Muslims that if they accept the government of the Christians, the Christians would swallow them up. If the Muslim has <i>iman</i> then they should not fear anything."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="de3a83c54ed318e1bc72ddd1acb50199">They kept explaining to the general public that, "By reaching a compromise with Ferdinand, Abu Abdullah wanted to save the Muslims from destruction in the rest of Andalus. Ferdinand has extended a hand of friendship towards us and Abu Abdullah realizes that if he does not reciprocate then tomorrow Ferdinand would not treat us well when he is victorious."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c7a6a3e2a5b464f9c1462fd22a60c843">Abu Dawood had also reached Loja with the Christian forces. After monitoring the situation for a few days, he wrote to Ferdinand that this was the right time to render a decisive blow to Granada. Ferdinand personally came to Loja and took charge of the troops and after quickly capturing the forts of Al-Beera and Mashinal, laid a siege on Sakhra. Al-Zeghel left one-third of his army in Granada and advanced towards Sakhra and encamped a few miles away from the city. Routine skirmishes took place between the two parties. The citizens fought from within the confines of the city while Al-Zeghel attacked the enemies from the rear. Badr Bin Mughira had suddenly started a mass advancement from the North-east. Ferdinand was compelled to lift the siege of Sakhra and at the same time Ferdinand received the news that the king of France was advancing towards Pyrenees with a legion of troops. Ferdinand removed the siege of Sakhra and ordered ten thousand of his troops to stop the advance of the <i>mujahideen</i> in the north-east. He left the required number of troops with Abu Abdullah for the protection of Loja, Al-Beera and Mashinal while he returned to deal with the threat from the King of France.</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="fad3d57b4bef0f4ad55dff54679164a3">(4)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3a96b5f484aeaaf073505ec17be38b28">To reach a compromise with the King of France, Ferdinand sent a delegation of priests and made him realize that the war in Granada and Hispania was a war between the crescent and the cross and a war between two major Christian powers would benefit the Muslims. The Bishops of Castile and France embraced each other and compelled the two kings to shake hands with each other. To become part of the blessing of fighting the Muslims, the King of France gave two thousand horsemen and twenty ships under Ferdinand's command.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cbd243dcf93517ae7da349e7f3b601af">For a long time Ferdinand realized had that Granada's strength cannot be broken unless Malaga is not captured. Malaga was Granada's most important port and after capturing it, it would be easy to take over the entire coastal regions of Granada. This way, apart from the port of Almeria he would be able to cut-off all the routes between Andalus and Morocco and he would be able to bring their belief to ashes that the Muslim world was behind them in support. He was certain that once Malaga was taken away, the Muslims of Granada would know that they were at the mercy of the Christians. From Malaga he could subdue the rebellious tribes of Sierra Nevada. After receiving twenty ships from France his navy had become powerful. He wrote to Abu Abdullah, "My army would launch a sudden attack on Malaga and because of its importance, Al-Zeghel would try to reach there. You would be able to capture Granada without any resistance."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d92baccad7957f82d17aae685d7e29dd">After a few days, Ferdinand's naval fleet had left for Malaga. He too headed with his army towards Malaga after taking a long route from the southwest. The naval attack on Malaga was so unprecedented that the Christian troops landed without any resistance and laid siege on the city. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="6801e2406290ab9c605eb37136a2ef2a">Al-Zeghel's entire focus was on Loja. When he suddenly received the news of Malaga's siege he left a handful of troops to guard Granada while he set-off for Malaga but when he was a station away from Malaga he received the news that Abu Abdullah was heading towards Granada with 8,000 troops. He hopelessly let most of the troops head towards Malaga while he returned to Granada. But before he could reach Granada the group of traitors had already opened the gates of the city for Abu Abdullah and Abu Abdullah's flag was fluttering over Al-Hamra. With a dejected heart Al-Zeghel headed for Malaga once again but the treacherous nephew attacked him from the rear as soon as he found out that his uncle's troops were few in numbers. Al-Zeghel's soldiers fought bravely but when they saw that apart from the Christians their swords were also clashing with their brothers, they could not remain steadfast. After taking a defeat, Al-Zeghel took shelter in the area of Alpujarras. The next day he received the news that the rest of his troops have been defeated by Ferdinand and all the paths leading to Malaga from the coast and land have been closed. After organizing a small army of the bellicose tribes, Al-Zeghel made Bast his bastion. In Malaga Al-Zaghairi put up a ferocious fight but after a month the people became helpless due to a lack of supplies and reinforcements. A few times, Al-Zeghel tried to advance towards Malaga through the mountains but in vain due to the presence of a large number Ferdinand's troops in the field.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b5e6a4ae6149eded57e0e57954ff807a">Even Badr Bin Mughira diverted his attacks towards the southeast instead of the northeast but the minor losses could not uproot Ferdinand's cowardly troops and based on previous bad experiences he didn't permit his troops for an onslaught.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4e1d8cddfa0d7c2d9f336c22517f104f">(5)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bd4fd2b889ac205d068a32d8af9660fd">The people of Granada were in a sorry state. People dying of hunger were willing to lay down their arms but Al-Zaghairi did not loose hope. To the ones preferring peace, he had just one answer, "The enemy can only enter the city over my dead body."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cc72f7944db022c7cf1be48d06ffff2c">When the troops' morale would be low he would raise it by his feverous speech. But when nothing could be seen on Malaga's sky but darkness, then, like the city's population there was also a spilt within the army. Some traitors struck a deal with Ferdinand and opened the city's gates, arrested Al-Zaghairi and handed him over to Ferdinand. </p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="0ee5cb232ec0527496a0c597dcae14a5">On Ferdinand's orders, Al-Zaghairi was brutally tortured and killed. After this the people of Malaga witnessed a reign of cruelty and barbarism that was beyond their wildest imagination. First being intoxicated by their victory and then by heavy drinking, Ferdinand's troops played havoc in Malaga. Women were dragged out of their homes into the market. They were forced to eat the flesh of swine and drink alcohol and at the point of the sword they were made to understand that it was an obligation of the conquered to obey every command of the conqueror. Men who displayed their honor were punished by being burned alive and when those traitors who betrayed Al-Zaghairi and opened the gates of the city for the enemy went and complained to Ferdinand, he replied, "Malaga is the door to Andalus. I want to see it cleansed from the existence of the enemy. If the treatment of my troops is unbearable for you then you may leave the city. My ships are ready if anyone of you would like to go to Morocco."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="02ba4b8a448dd52f42105212bbc65fe3">After the fall of Malaga, all the areas under the Sultanate of Granada came under the hold of the Christians including the nearby cities of the coastal areas of Malaga in the south.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="664c1fc90ac239029673097f891cdf9c">Al-Zeghel's small sultanate extended from Jean in the north till Almeria in the south. After Malaga's port was snatched, the port of Almeria became like a jugular vein for the Muslims. Apart from this Guaz and Beegha were under Al-Zeghel's control. With respect to its resources, this sultanate was quite well-off. Alpujarras's valleys were watered by the streams of the snow-tipped mountains of Mount Sierra Nevada. Here the production of fruits was the highest in Andalus. In the rest of the region that was mostly mountainous the people used to keep cattle that was more than their needs and the terrain of the mountains and forest provided a natural defense for the region.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="69fbce463e2b843caef70dfe4fc8ec9f">After a few days of preparations Ferdinand attacked Beegha and laid siege on the city but the mountain tribes came down and started warring from all sides. Realizing the significance of Beegha, Badr Bin Mughira gave the border's security under Mansour Bin Ahmed's command and dashed towards Beegha with two thousand warriors and in the first attack itself he slaughtered five thousand of Ferdinand's troops. The following night he attacked from the rear and Al-Zeghel came out of the city and rendered a surprise blow to the enemy. In the morning, Ferdinand lifted the siege and returned to Malaga.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b9fc871723f4204eef745895bd4a486e">After a year of preparations in Malaga, Ferdinand invaded Beegha again but this time instead of attacking the city, he destroyed all the areas within its vicinity, looted the cattle of the farmers, and ravaged their crops and gardens. To prevent any unprecedented attacks from the tribes he setup checkposts on every road leading to Beegha. The sudden attacks by Badr Bin Mughira and the tribes proved quite detrimental for Ferdinand but they could offer no respite to the people of Beegha. After a long siege of six months the people of Beegha eventually gave in due to intense famine.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="77a950c9bbfcb04d302918fa66d9f71b">After making Beegha his bastion Ferdinand captured Al-Zeghel's forts in  one after the other.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9e19759ee26e1600b92e668d3f345a40">(6)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1660ef3bfd7b1149cd7b549d689e2207">Bashir Bin Hassan was tying a bandage around Badr Bin Mughira's wounded arm. Mansour entered the room. Badr Bin Mughira enquired, "Mansour! You have not left as yet?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b0725f745ddefe4d22e2233ccf362e0a">Mansour replied, "I had just stepped out of the fort when I met him."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b6345a7a345ee46e09cb9329be5f3610">"Al-Zeghel is here himself?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3d74a012c005e84eccf5ad98eed30f51">"Yes. I have made him sit in the meeting room."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bfa9fda9fb9a1e5f88a3aab81ad2bf22">"Who else is with him?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b1dec2b4399934ff7177acb7fef17c60">"Abu Mohsin is with him. They had some soldiers with them too but our men have stopped them across the bridge."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6b88667eab240cc0aec2577c1f155605">"I hope they did not complain."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ff55132141022696c727589205dfee9b">"They were upset at this but I consoled them by saying that this is standard procedure. Since their visit was unexpected, the soldiers did not have any special orders."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="c0cff9d00db2ec50ece56df12eb4a8b2">Badr Bin Mughira said, "Did you tell them that you were going to him with my letter?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fdae1c24078461212107b04bd2946228">"Yes, I had even presented the letter to him but he returned it to me without reading it. He said that after traveling such a long distance it would be better if he spoke to you verbally."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="19e51e84cc5175f84dacda396e5a322c">"Didn't you tell them that my reply would be the same even if we met?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c44df561f50f59f5854f1ca7da3a01cc">"He is so sad and upset that I did not think it was appropriate to say so."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="66d9388f0980e7f8529a16664d811396">Badr said, "I wanted to avoid this meeting. Anyways, this is a compulsion but both of you stay with me. If I don't live upto my obligation then please correct me."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="94294159878084d3b64cf50cbbaf9fdd">Later, Badr Bin Mughira, Bashir and Mansour were shaking hands with Al-Zeghel and Abu Mohsin in a spacious room of the fort. When they sat down on the chairs after exchanging pleasantries, Al-Zeghel said after pondering for a while with his bowed down, "You must be knowing why I am here. I couldn't wait for your reply. The expressions on your faces tell me that you are upset with me. I have not come here with the intention of clarifying my position. I regret that the circumstances did not give me a chance to take your advice. You might have thought that I was being a coward but God is my witness that I didn't care about saving my life. Even now I don't consider myself among the living. I have come to tell you that I threw my sword only when both my hands were cut. Alas! If I only knew that the water of the river cannot be stopped by dams of sands. My analysis were wrong and an incompetent person like me had no right to lead the nation and I have nothing but tears of regret in front of you. I know that you will not forgive me. Trusting Abu Abdullah is such a sin that I am not ready to forgive even myself for it. My conscious will always prick me for it I submitted to Ferdinand once I was sure that now any more sacrifices would be in vain. We have been uprooted and the enemy has surrounded us from all sides. One part of the nation is content with the slavery to the enemy and those who were the freedom fighters are also feeling that their strength to resist has weakened. For me, I had only two options. One was to accept Ferdinand's slavery and save the rest of the Muslims from destruction and the second was to continue waging a war whose eventual result would be nothing but defeat. This way I could have protected my name from maligning every after my death. But I felt that this act of mine would be like closing my eyes to the present and future of the Muslims in the conquered regions of Andalus and Granada. The handful of Muslims who would support me would be able to remain independent for only a few years but the remaining thousands of Muslims whose liberty has been snatched would perish in the enemy's fire of vengeance. Maybe after peace prevails they would be able to rise again and nature might send a better person for their leadership. Anyways, as for myself I was sure that if I kept them fighting in the turmoil then their days of destruction would come even closer. Only a few drops of blood run in the veins of my nation. Once those are also spent, they too would have nothing but tears of regret."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1ee7978aee2dd33f19db06390a5015f6">Speaking upto this point, Al-Zeghel looked at Badr Bin Mughira. He was quiet. After thinking for a while, Al-Zeghel said, "But please don't think that I have lost hope in you and your warriors. You are the last hope for the Muslims of Granada and Andalus. I am sure that one day this valley would be our nation's last fort but at the moment it is important to keep the flood of the Christians away from this valley so that you can have time to prepare. For this purpose I..."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0468aab84869de9b49ce04409db3c491">Al-Zeghel halted at this.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c622ae31a08d7e8c3e0276536e0a1ef3">Badr said, "Yes, yes, go on. Why are you silent?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5a87a91ad9cf8d059e39f16077980ff5">Al-Zeghel reluctantly said, "I have convinced Ferdinand that it was me alone who dragged you into the field. Now if he accepts this as your free territory, then, you would have nothing to do with the people of Granada."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fef299bc9d7656be973a35290df5b950">Badr said, "I hope you didn't tell him that I am alive?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ec72a387d60986f6aaac3ddf4e57556f">"No. I have convinced him that your successor will follow my instructions."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="08c7d8eec70c92c10052d4dd79f6485c">"So, you have come to us with a message of friendship from Ferdinand."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="996d6f947f091023877316b048f4b6cf">"For God's sake don't misunderstand my intentions in this regard. My sole objective is to give you time for preparations. I have brought a letter for you from Ferdinand."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a96513a09deb30ae4d4f8ee65ff78104">While saying this Al-Zeghel put his hand in the pocket of his robe, pulled out a paper and presented it to Badr Bin Mughira.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0e58f54e3d5b0714e95450293095c6dc">Badr Bin Mughira took the piece of paper and handed it over to Bashir and said, "Read it out."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="90ef377326979a745589b8292704ba2b">Bashir started reading Ferdinand's letter in a choked voice:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f76926eaf8bc4f53a57fac55377a1a91">"On the recommendation of Sultan Al-Zeghel, we would like to extend a hand of friendship to Mansour Bin Ahmed and his comrades. After a long war, we feel the need for peace and security between the Christians and Muslim for the benefit of the people of Andalus and we hope that our brave enemy would support us in establishing peace in the light of our extremely generous offer. These are our terms and conditions for a compromise:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="813ce3837445b4ac0a329d455083ba06">1.    The region between Mount Tadmeer and Al-Shaleer that is known as the Valley of the Frontier Falcon would be independent and sovereign. And the people of this region would be given the right to choose Mansour Bin Ahmed or some other person whom they prefer to be their ruler.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a1db13c06f4ade7ad35358518b2ccbf7">2.    Assistance would be provided by us in case of any foreign attack.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8b6a7cc293a50e717e5be4d68f6088c5">In return for this extremely generous offer, we request the following in return:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f725de6a298d09fde7263b5d40e798c1">"Our forts in the northern and eastern borders that are currently under Mansour Bin Ahmed should be returned to us and we should also get a commitment that neither Mansour Bin Ahmed nor his successors should ever attack our kingdom's borders. Apart from this, they should not interfere in the affairs of those kingdoms of Granada and Andercus whose rulers have become our allies and they will not support any rebel against us whether Christian or Muslim." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="8c6aee4b018b58a1079c157420977113">After reading Ferdinand's letter, Bashir looked towards Badr and everyone's glances also focused on his face. Badr Bin Mughira raised his neck, looked at his comrades and said, "Mansour! Would you like to say something regarding this?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8a15947df5365f3109792a3ee4147e95">Mansour looked at Bashir then returned his attention back to Badr and said, "If you mean whether I am ready to carry the coffin of the hopes of the Andalusian Muslims then my reply is in the negative."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c2acd4caa0196530055fdeea8420d04b">Badr said, "And you, Bashir?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="09f749a12e38e544f1297c4789d173b5">Bashir replied, "Even if I'm sure that the ship of my nation is sinking, even then I would not want to take the support of twigs."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="dbc6ea20f023f8975716ce283838d20c">Badr Bin Mughira looked at Al-Zeghel and said, "Ferdinand is sure that we are weary and we desperately need to sleep. Before strangulating us he wants to make sure that we are asleep and to sing a lullaby to us he has chosen that very person who violently shook Granada time and again from its sleep of total obliviousness. His extreme generosity is a sedating potion and to administer this potion down our throats he has chosen the hands of that very person that was, until yesterday, the Maître de Arms of Granada. Today the last hope of Granada is pushing us to the lowest pit of hopelessness. Our lives are very valuable in the sight of our elders, our benefactors and our leaders. That is the reason you have come to us. To advise us that we should not let go of life even if we are without honor and dignity."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d442aac33e1892bf16b41a047de75f32">"Sultan Al-Zeghel! You say that reaching a compromise with the enemy will give us time for making preparations but don't you think that the enemy itself feels the need to make preparations to strike a final blow at us? In the practical world, the agreement between the strong and weak hold no significance. Such agreements are made to shackle the weak and give the strong time to sharpen their swords."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="15c992acd8168b90e218ec21c2016b65">"If we are powerful, we can survive despite the wishes of the enemy and if we are weak, then the mere expression of good wishes from the enemy are not enough for our survival. The sword is the only guarantee for our dignity, our liberty and our survival and our sword will not be put in the scabbard before we achieve victory or death. Can we trust an enemy that ordered the Muslims to vacate the coastal areas after they conquered Malaga? Are you here to ask us to trust the writings of a man whose hands are stained with the blood of our nation's women and children? Where was the generous and kind-hearted ruler sleeping when the honor of the Muslim girls was looted in the streets of Malaga? If you are in the mode of self-deception then for God' sake don't ask us to be in that mode. You are concerned that our sacrifices will be in vain? But let me tell you that sacrifice itself is a goal. If fate does not have a life of dignity for us, then the path to a death of dignity is not closed for us as yet."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d97d31f2ed61fd7c28998ba405a53397">Badr Bin Mughira stood up from his chair in excitement and said, "A nation's blood does not end by flowing. It only dries up when they accept a life of indignity. Tell Ferdinand that we know how to pay the price of our freedom. So far Ferdinand's flood of victories have merely broken dams of sand but heading to this valley he will have to deal with those rocks that have faced many storms in the past centuries. I know that our concern has pulled you here. You don't want us to continue treading a path that has nothing but thorns in it but these feet have become accustomed to these thorns. This body is not used to a bed of flowers. If you regret that our lives were wasted under your leadership, then we are also sorry to see that a person who was used to staying in residences of marble in Al-Hamra and was used to sleeping on silken beds had to endure the difficulties of war with us."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="065f2de469dee546d43e1c07e0ebf84b">"Congratulations to Abu Abdullah for Granada's throne and congratulations to you for the Sultanate of Andercus. Don't worry about us. We have opened our eyes in the shades of swords and would eventually sleep in the rain of arrows."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6dc183afb0d092feda9bc882311c611f">Those tears that Al-Zeghel tried to suppress flowed out involuntarily. With shivering lips he said in a voice drenched in sorrow, "Badr! Badr! Stop striking unnecessary blows at your fallen friend. You won't see me in this land of embarrassment every again. I'm going to Africa. You don't need a weak person like me and the rest of the people have contented with Abu Abdullah as their leader. If the Muslims have a future in Andalus then you are its custodian. Those people of Andercus who wish to follow your path will come to you. I have some gold and jewels. I will send the nation's trust to you. Before leaving I don't want you to misinterpret my tears. They were tears of regret and Abu Mohsin, your dwelling is also this valley."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ea41171655a85ede8110ffdeaa4fdc4b">Al-Zeghel stood up after saying this much. "Now, I would like to leave."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="74e5abd0d6623e758b276ddedc74483d">Badr said, "You are tired. Please rest until tomorrow."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="50b96632bf9899f23a729f8d7c8dc0ad">"No. I would like to leave today itself."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f48a0a12230a0f64e09c652b48fcc97d">In the evening, Badr and some of his comrades were bidding farewell to Al-Zeghel on a bridge over a stream. </p></pre>
</div>
</body>
</html>
