<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter Part 11: The Mujahid and The Traitor</title>
  </head>
  <body><div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e"><br/></p>
                          <p data-p-id="7acce3193127d4b71a6c2b140c22dc95" style="text-align:center;"><b>(1)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="a5938299d1b78cca22c6dd20350049b3">With mixed thoughts Abu Dawood was moving towards that very court where, according to him, the fate of Badr Bin Mughira, and with him the fate of Granada too was going to be decided.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="26002932e229b506002a3ddafd4fba8f">He would suddenly halt while walking and would continue walking forward without coming to a conclusive decision. For the first time in his life he felt that he was loosing self-control. A moment ago, he had cleared every hurdle of his path to reach the final peak of his rise. Getting Badr Bin Mughira into his net of deception was his life's biggest achievement. Against this he could have asked Ferdinand for the biggest prize possible. He had cleared the way to Granada for Ferdinand forces. A few days ago when he had tried to convince Abu Abdullah that soon he would present the Frontier Falcon in shackles, Abu Abdullah had replied by saying that he would not take his word for it even if he showed him that he could fly.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cdb3d82062d1cb545ce3521d86527cd1">However, today he had compelled Abu Abdullah and his comrades to bow their heads in front of his greatness. Today he was convinced that Abu Abdullah and his comrades would be puppets in his hands and the time had arrived to realize the dream of capturing the throne and crown of Granada. Abu Abdullah was a pawn in his political game that he could easily remove from its place when the need arose. By instigating him to attack Malaga he could let Ferdinand into Granada with gates wide open. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="5179773d3afd0869ffea9683545dfff7">But the thought of Rabia directed his thinking to flow in a separate direction. "Aren't all my efforts for making Rabia and Angela the most honorable ladies of the world? Silly Rabia is in love with him. Will she be able to bear the shock of his death? Leaving Rabia grieving forever, will I be happy despite being the Sultan of Granada? Can there be a situation that could save the Frontier Falcon's life? A situation that would not jeopardize my future?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="037c662734725fa8b36264b5e8451294">His mind would reply nothing but "No" to all these questions. He knew very well that Badr Bin Mughira's fate would be decided tonight and he won't be able to defend him without demolishing the forts of his hopes. He thought, "Even if I am able to save him, I would not be able to remove the hatred in his heart that he has for me. He would oppose every wish of mine even after he becomes Rabia's husband. He would become a rock which I would have to break to move forward. After becoming his wife, Rabia would drift away from me day-by-day and the gulf between us would be impossible to cover. To make Rabia happy and save his life would leave me with only one option and that would be to say goodbye to all the dreams of my life and go into oblivion somewhere. No! No! I would never be able to do that. After all, why am I so concerned about Rabia? She would be in shock for a few days and I will be able to console her. When there would not be anyone at par with me in Hispania apart from Ferdinand, when emperors and kings would be proud of eating at my table and when Rabia would sit on the throne as a Queen to some King, then surely she would realize that her father was not her enemy."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e4b00b4a65a415cf9ebaa9f83719c071"><b>(2)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="cd8e4b4c3dce82410af3cf1228fe165a">Guards stood at every entrance of the court. The warden of the court welcomed Abu Dawood and opened its door. On seeing Abu Dawood the attendees stood up in respect. He responded by waving his hand in reply to their salutations and made his way towards the throne where Abu Abdullah sat. After bowing and greeting Abu Abdullah, he then sat on a vacant seat.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="47c174dcbe46fb987a1e70e3380dd245">Badr Bin Mughira stood right in front of the throne between the two rows of the nobles' seats. His hands were handcuffed and his face glowed with rage. After softly enquiring from a chief seated beside him, Abu Dawood found out that he had finished his statement. The chief also told him that his words were intolerable for everyone. For Abu Abdullah he had said that not only was he ill-natured but also a fool and in both cases he found him pitiable. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="0ce8965c49f59f608786ce2e800a1904">For a while the nobles and scholars whispered amongst themselves while Abu Abdullah looked at Badr Bin Mughira in amazement, anguish, uneasiness and bewilderment. Finally, he spoke. "We are giving you another chance. If you accept our government we will release you after a brief confinement."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="8ec349d8a1d017ea65dc58b5c0236ed8">Badr Bin Mughira replied, "I have already responded to this. I don't beg for my life from cowards. I refuse to acknowledge the government of a person who is God's rebel, who is the people's traitor, who is an enemy of his father." Badr Bin Mughira's glance fell on Abu Dawood and he raised his voice and said, "Abu Abdullah! You are nurturing snakes under your sleeve and you think that they will only bite your enemies? But you are unaware of a snake's nature. They are friends to no one. You think that my crime is to wage war against you? But by the sword that has always been bathed in the blood of the enemies of Islam that if I had the desire to wage war against you, then the walls of Al-Hamra would not have stopped my warriors. I wanted to bring you to the right path using various excuses and that is why I accepted the invitation of one of your comrades and came alone to your palace. You can issue whatever orders you want regarding me but that doesn't mean I am a criminal and have accepted you as a judge over me. I did not accept your father as my amir because he was the Sultan of Granada and he sat on couches of gold, in buildings of marble. On the contrary, I accepted his leadership because he had declared <i>jihad</i> against the worst enemy of Islam and you are a toy in Ferdinand's hand. How did you even think that I would swear allegiance to you?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fa63071ce01c527fdaec475f68f8db61">Abu Dawood said something in the chief's ear who sat next to him and the chief stood up and said, "O Great Sultan! So far whatever the criminal has said proves that he deserves the severest of punishments therefore, it is our request to pronounce the sentence to him and adjourn the court. This disrespectful way of addressing by the criminal is unbearable for your loyalists." The rest of the of the chiefs and scholars got up one after the other in his support. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="e74ff84b437de8276639ec822b6f7c33">Badr Bin Mughira said, "Unfortunate is that being who thinks such people are his loyalists. Abu Abdullah! These people are vultures that nurture on people's corpses. By relying on them you are pushing yourself alongwith Granada onto a path of destruction."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b1cfbfbc82e7dfd88586a38150ab46d6">Abu Abdullah got up and said in a trembling voice, "I give Badr Bin Mughira the death penalty for being the greatest enemy of the Sultanate of Granada. The criminal should be killed before sunrise."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bf50bf7f4e61ec9d0d96da70d1174e12">Badr Bin Mughira stood like a rock. To date no such criminal had ever stood in this chamber of the Al-Hamra who had listened to his death penalty with such a pleasant and glamorous smile. His silence said this about his current situation, "I have always played with death. You can put me to death but you cannot take my smiles away from me. I have learned to smile like this under the shades of swords and below the rains of arrows and it will ridicule your cowardice, cruelty and deception until the last moment." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="38560d3d403d928e8b6a1e4e8f9e93e1"><b>(3)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="14ea57edc244ba0a2404ad54a17364e6">The throne and crown of Granada became trivial in Abu Dawood's eyes once he saw this model of liberty and determination. He asked himself, "Is there such a wealth in this world that could make death seem so petty to someone. What is that zeal, after all, that they get infused with, which makes these people see no difference between life and death? This youth smiles despite seeing the executioner's sword so close to him and Rabia drank the cup of medicine thinking it was poison. Why after all? Is it because they have understood the secret of death and life? Or is it because they have not properly appreciated the comforts of life? And is there a zest in life that can be equated to tranquility when it is surrounded by death? I can take over the throne of Andalus but would that success teach me to smile in the horrible face of death? No! No! In fact, with every success the face of death would become even more horrible."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cb0460161878c4b9757a5bc9564023d2">For the first time in his life he realized that "the biggest success for a person in life is to conquer the fear of death. This is his greatest victory and this victory is achieved only by those who understand that life and death is only for the sake of the Almighty. Unlike me, Badr Bin Mughira has learned to fight not for himself but for God. For him God is not an imaginary force but a reality. A reality that compels him to stand in the face of death like a rock. Alas! I wish I could conquer death in the same manner." Abu Dawood began to view the entire palaces of his ideas nothing more than heaps of sand.</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="3106d4ef8f8c28d5c97fae28d3d39b10">Abu Abdullah got up from his throne and went into in a room in the rear. The guards took Badr Bin Mughira outside and one after the other the chiefs and scholars congratulated Abu Dawood on his marvelous victory but he felt as if they were mocking him. A slave approached him and said that Abu Abdullah was waiting for him in the other room. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="fc86b882c3fa713bc8ca055aad14ec0d">Moments later Abu Dawood was in a beautiful chamber seated in front of Abu Abdullah. The inferiority that he felt in front of Badr Bin Mughira gradually withered away in the company of Abu Abdullah. The self-styled Sultan of Granada considered him to be a supernatural being. When he entered the room, Abu Abdullah stepped forward and after shaking Abu Dawood's hand, bent and kissed it. Even during conversation Abu Abdullah's tone was unusually humble. When Abu Abdullah said that from today every "cue from you would be a command for me", his superiority complex began to take life. He thought that the world in which his thoughts had strayed away a while ago were merely a supposition. "Majority of the people that live in this world belong to the world that Abu Abdullah lives in and in that world I am smarter than hundreds of them. I can make hundreds of the likes of Abu Abdullah dance to my tunes. I have cleared the path for my success in this world. I will keep treading this path and with every new success the people who respect me will grow even more. And while dying I would not have the bitter regret that any of my wishes were not fulfilled. I should not think about Badr Bin Mughira. His world is different from my world. Thinking about him will cause me nothing else but concern. I belong to the world where idiots like Abu Abdullah reside. I have been born to be a leader and guide to hundreds of such people. I have been born to drive flocks of people." During these musings, he thought of Rabia. What would he tell her after she gains consciousness? "Maybe because of the intensity of the emotions the medicine might not have had an effect on her? What will I tell her? And Angela is also stubbornly supporting her. She must be waiting for me at the door. She would trouble me with her tears of compassion for her sister."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4e05df7e162ff3e24555b99cb8fb9b73">Like Abu Dawood, Abu Abdullah was also concerned that in case this news reached the harem he would be taken to task by his mother and wife, who had not touched their food for several days on hearing about Moosa's captivity. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="843f2fd0f3cdd1cddcf3c552b8b0b988">He said to Abu Dawood, "I have asked the jailer to inform me as soon as he is killed. I don't want to enter the harem until this task is completed."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="84ac08c2975ce25e6534d3ea49e7eadf">Abu Dawood said, "You must be upset at Rabia's behavior. I didn't expect this from her since she is quite sensible. She fell unconscious in the other room. I'm sure she is not conscious at this time too."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4f435597c8cb2d86569b9877940e825b">Abu Abdullah said thoughtfully, "Don't feel bad. Even if she said those things in her senses, I should not be surprised. Thousands of girls of Granada sing the praises of his bravery. Today after watching him, even I felt that I would have fallen for his masculinity, had I been a girl. But I am hoping that Rabia will forget him soon."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cf11c3244f8f61e0a7b7287510e0ec3b">To change the topic Abu Dawood said, "The jailer will not come before taking care of his body. In the meantime, wouldn't it be good to play a game of chess?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="734f6d5aac739457ec4a2073ed568317">Abu Abdullah said, "You have spoken my heart's desire. The only condition is that we spend the rest of the night here."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="153e62a2247874c61fa70f2ff5fbf5d9">Abu Dawood replied, "I am willing to sit with you untill the afternoon."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fad3d57b4bef0f4ad55dff54679164a3"><b>(4)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="6c5ea289d1a8d63ecb2ef0d11f93e02e">Badr Bin Mughira was maneuvered from complex underground pathways into a cell whose door was only opened on such occasion. Besides the eight soldiers accompanying Badr Bin Mughira, there were guards standing at every step of the way. The cell had a torch alight and the executioner stood waiting for him. Without facing any resistance from Badr Bin Mughira, the soldiers tied his wrists onto an iron rack. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="4c3cd9003b07aac72ca60c1363c744a8">At the jailer's cue, the soldiers went out and he closed the door and said to Badr Bin Mughira, "This might seem like a routine statement but your death will grieve me like no other death. So, I ask you, not in the capacity of the jailer of Al-Hamra, but as someone who sympathizes with you, would you like to express a wish that I am able to fulfill before your death?"</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="2c0ce4d90e7e5c8717b83fa182fc4458">Badr Bin Mughira replied, "I know you're helpless. There is one wish that might be possible for you to fulfill and that is that someday if you might have to execute Abu Abdullah on the orders of Abu Dawood or anyone of his comrades, then, do not use this cell for this purpose. I do not want his blood to be mixed with mine."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7d21a5b751ee6342226458d2912a0bb9">The jailer said, "Would you like to leave a message for Rabia?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2fbe73583a7f7fcb7c0a375c0d51f7ba">"No. I do not have to use anyone to convey a message to Rabia. After I'm gone, she will be able to hear the message of my soul. You go ahead and finish your work."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="52625c6de9df03b9e8e9b96436ed3322">The jailer looked towards the executioner. This was the first time in ten years that the executioner saw tears in the eyes of the jailer. At his hand gesture, the executioner raised the axe while the jailer looked the other way, wiping his tears.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f534b39f9d5003cff0f1177eac6da3e1">Somebody started banging the door loudly and the jailer held the executioner's hand and said, "Wait!" Then he went close to the door and shouted, "Who is it?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="619d4908c4937a3aab78d82331debaaa">In reply he heard the frightened voices of the guards, "Open the door."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d6ed002274d3bbc52a49fd430f77565e">He quickly opened the latch and was surprised to see the Grand Master of Al-Hamra, Abu Abdullah's elderly mother, his wife and Angela at the door. A few eunuchs stood behind them.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="87b16ee69819faf1abbba476bd9c4afa">After peeping inside, the Grand Master of Al-Hamra took a sigh of relief and said, "We reached just in time. The royal ladies want to see the biggest enemy of the Sultan being executed with their own eyes."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="85b6925de5ca6cd6322c7029f20e9657">Appearing a bit worried, the jailer said, "Fulfilling the wish of the ladies is my duty but they would have to guarantee our safety from the wrath of the Sultan."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2a3b64eaf817f14e0ce0ea412922ddfe">While stepping inside, Abu Abdullah's mother said, "You should have an expectation for a reward. Today our son has gained victory over a great enemy. The eunuchs will distribute rewards on our behalf to all those whose intelligence gave the opportunity of being victorious over the enemy. And we will also request them not to inform Abu Abdullah about our presence here. He is in the habit of becoming upset over every other thing."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="edb44a5f27243643affef846822051b1">After the royal ladies and Angela entered, the jailer closed the door and said, "Would you like to say something to the criminal?" </p>
                          <p data-p-id="cce26ca436d5ae360bfa98056cf729ce">Abu Abdullah's mother whispered to the jailer and said, "Do you also believe that Badr Bin Mughira is a criminal?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0d5135655959b9630d2238830de1c069">The jailer looked at her in amazement. Abu Abdullah's mother removed her necklace and handed it over to him and said, "This is your reward."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="88399419c27ac24a7d9f8653700cafe8">Abu Abdullah's wife followed suit and presented her jewel studded bangles to the black executioner. The executioner looked at the jailer in bewilderment and the jailer, taking a cue from the Grand Master's eye signal, said, "Queen of the World! Command us and we will comply without any incentive. Please take the necklace and bangles back."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f2f26410874ffa87ecef2309d9f208c0">Abu Abdullah's mother said, "There is no doubt that the Emirate of Al-Hamra and its greatness have become a fable but the Sultan's mother and his wife are not so empty-handed that they can't even patronize their loyalists with ordinary rewards. Don't give us the impression that we are poor. We want to shower these pieces of stone on the Frontier Falcon."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cff8093d21a212e28c6af1ffaf11c507">The Grand Master said to the jailer, "Now what are you thinking? I have completed all the preparations. Set him free."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="abc0428a82efc7680bd341d6e150f4b5">The jailer gestured to the executioner, who immediately took the bangles from the hands of Abu Abdullah's wife.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ac0e911330bda234237a2b2fdc857d26">Badr Bin Mughira's face was towards the other side. He had listened to their conversation and his eyes swelled with tears of gratitude for the Supreme Being who never forgets his slaves no matter what.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="47fea2822455f300920f6edab9a5822c">The executioner unlocked the shackles.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="665a4c7b533379ad7cbf78880c905803">Badr Bin Mughira got up, turned around and looked at his benefactors. The Queen Mother moved forward and said, "Son! Consider me like your mother. We have done our duty but if you take this as a favor then when the time comes, do not take revenge from Abu Abdullah but consider him to be someone who deserves sympathy."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="7dd45035da63ba428af3f1962292414e">Badr Bin Mughira replied, "I still think he deserves sympathy. I have seen how helplessly he's surrounded by the nation sellers."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="298322fd6a656b202a3ed535b1bfc85f">Abu Abdullah's wife said tearfully, "I want to take a pledge from you that is that you won't ever become disheartened and leave the people of Granada. Not only every woman of Granada, but also of Andalus considers you as their benefactor."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bfbdd4ce144f558ea11b3d9d4527a619">Feeling touched, Badr Bin Mughira replied, "My sister! Granada is Muslim Andalus' last bastion. My comrades and I will protect it until our last breath."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1e50136a105fa6783e7344289c9a645f">The Queen Mother said, "This is not the time to have a conversation. I fear one of Abu Abdullah's comrades might come this way. We are releasing you on our personal responsibility and we are confident that we both will be safe from Abu Abdullah's wrath even after he finds out. However, for the sake of the workers of the palace who have been faithful to you, you would have to remain underground until Abu Abdullah regrets his doings. Otherwise these people, instead of you would have to go underground, and the traitors of the Sultanate would have the upper hand in Al-Hamra."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="094ca1046c1d08d72a024acb2252e920">Badr Bin Mughira replied, "Rest assured. Apart from a few reliable people, no one would know about my life. I have to remain underground for a very great purpose."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="50048d0818133d671967dd07eb6c2d6d">The Queen Mother said, "May God be your protector and supporter."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4e1d8cddfa0d7c2d9f336c22517f104f"><b>(5)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="c0553331a722b5f5b0c85c95d6d7b2ff">So far Angela was silently looking at Badr Bin Mughira. Badr Bin Mughira took notice of her. She nervously took a step forward and said hesitantly, "Don't worry about Rabia. It was difficult for her to come here."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e4a97a86655ada386feef34a2c25901b">Abu Abdullah's wife said, "We are obliged to Angela who warned us in good time."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5943d6d045868bb27c227c241c2a27c6">Bringing a smile of appreciation to his face, Badr Bin Mughira said, "Angela, I'm sure your physician will enquire about you. If you want to convey something, I'm willing to act as a messenger."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d0443f5e26f07e26b6350cf5dc458f99">For a moment, ever drop of blood in her veins gathered up onto her cheeks. After entering this cell, her biggest concern was to say something about Bashir Bin Hassan. She had no hope that he would be a point of discussion. And she also knew she would be at a loss of words even if he was mentioned. But it was as if Badr Bin Mughira had opened the gates of heaven for her. She said, "He is my benefactor...Please present him this handkerchief on my behalf."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fea3706138b2916eb9e2cd02a8915246">Angela reluctantly stepped forward and handed a red colored handkerchief to Badr Bin Mughira.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="90c1a838ee7e6cf596b06803791ebf78">The royal ladies had understood volumes by their feminine instincts. Therefore, they remained silent.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2e60c36fcb632f98daef1d5475b4a6ad">On the Grand Master's suggestion Badr Bin Mughira was put on a plank that was placed in the cell to carry the dead body. A sheet was put over him.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="685d563ca7f53bfb7e4f25e6a3f3150b">The jailer opened the door of the cell. All the three ladies went out. The guards stood at distance, surrounding a eunuch, who was keeping their attention focused on him by being very stingy in distributing the jewels among them. However, as soon as he saw the royal ladies, he quickly emptied the bag. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="2bb9ca74418ba08747122b4fe01a83a8">For a moment the jailer stood by the door. Once the ladies were at a distance, he came out and said to guards, "It was the Sultan's order that the news of the killing should be confined to us. The Queen and the Lady-in-Waiting had come here without the Sultan's permission. Now if the Sultan finds this out, he might not say anything to the royal ladies but we would be in grave danger."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="27514d272ba24321939d7c272b75cc0a">The jailer called four men inside to carry the corpse and permitted the others to leave. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="ec9705742e4a7cf943e4dbff24ff67ee">After a while the four men carried out the plank on their shoulders on which Badr Bin Mughira lay and walked behind, following the Grand Master and the jailer. After passing through several complex pathways they came and stood in front of a wall. It appeared that there was no way to move forward. Handing over the torch to the Grand Master, the jailer turned an iron latch mounted on the wall. After a crankling, a crack appeared in the wall which gradually expanded into a pathway and the loud sound of flowing water could be heard. On the jailer's cue, the Grand Master placed the torch at one side and came out with him. The soldiers followed suit. Outside this wall there was a platform which was about eight to ten yards wide and five yards high. Below it was a gushing river. On the jailer's signal the soldiers placed the plank down. The Grand Master said something in the jailer's ear, who then addressed the soldiers and said, "You have been my companions since a longtime, therefore, in my opinion, hiding anything from you would be an insult to your loyalty. I would like to reveal a great secret to you."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="1e6b48d9d4c1ce2096a70701f3d370c1">Seeing the jailer a bit shaken, one of the soldiers said, "Don't worry. That secret has already been revealed to us and it will be secure in our breasts till our last breath. You don't have to tell us that we have carried a living being on our shoulders instead of a dead body."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c313da74d0c1b09b51a51bdfcf61a11b">The jailer remained silent and the Grand Master pulled out a bag of jewels from under his armpit. While handing it to the soldier, he said, "This is a reward for you and your comrades."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="58c8ea9923e4c8fb56b3157cd2be9324">He said, "No! No! For the people of Granada, the biggest prize for us is that the Frontier Falcon remains alive."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="41f56270be76decfa0c2e00ec87c5330">For a while the soldier hesitated a little. But on the insistence of the Grand Master and the jailer, and seeing his companions in agreement, this soldier accepted the bag.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="16a19629a4b827e75808312c6df17a71">While taking a sigh of relief, the jailer enquired, "Were the other guards also suspicious that we wanted to save his life?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bbe986999c08ac9e6e0e1dedb2dd647c">"No! But most wished for the Queen to have mercy on him. I too had no such expectation from the Queen but after examining the slaughterhouse, I was satisfied. There wasn't even a drop of blood."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="41ab61fc97209e78931656ed6bdb75d0">The Grand Master said, "The executioner must have taken care of that deficiency by now."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a1368a7ccd957a2b6d70480aaa51561e">Badr Bin Mughira removed the sheet and threw it to one side. He got up, moved forward and said, "I believe I do not have to take your permission to come back to the world of the living."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4c17386b854e3323cf8a251379b909c2">One after the other, the jailer, Grand Master and the soldiers stepped forward and shook his hand.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="032416690ac27046cfe3f12ca00ea6bc">The Grand Master said, "Our sphere of influence and control ends at the banks of this side of the river. The water is cold and rough. If you can't trust your arms, we can make other arrangements. But time is scarce."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8d6d7783a6c8c7e2d8dd92d95108c02a">Badr Bin Mughira said, "Don't worry. The Supreme Being that had stopped the hands of the executioner at my neck can certainly save me from these defiant waves."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d33bbae9b14a6672c07c172d18b3021f">The Grand Master said, "Very well, goodbye! Today you had entered from the backdoor of Al-Hamra and you're leaving from a backdoor as well. We will wait for the day when the main gate of Al-Hamra is opened for you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bf5047a893ed30748db627be52f539de">Badr Bin Mughira bid farewell and advanced towards the river bank and after a brief hesitation, plunged into the river.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9e19759ee26e1600b92e668d3f345a40"><b>(6)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="702f61c3733c0973a1eabc7ca4220a42">Badr Bin Mughira sat on a rock on the other side of the river to catch his breath. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="930b08f5c430e6a032e044c13170ab21">The clouds had cleared in the sky and the stars were shining bright. As Badr Bin Mughira intended to get up, he heard the sound of some footsteps. He quickly got up, tiptoed and stood behind a tree. Moments later, in the darkness, he saw two men walking along the banks of the river. He cautiously followed them from behind the trees. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="ca19b47380640a420dac15b011d909a7">One of them said softly, "He has taken a long time. It will be morning soon."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d0ea55cb1c15398d13369642816620f0">The other said, "But he also said that we should not wait for him. In case of success, he would have to be there for a longer time."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d61912091a154eb1a8575ae82309befc">"But he also said that if there is a possibility he would lower a man down the ladder and apprise us of the actual situation."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cb8f89702ec298d2898c838fd3b263ae">"Maybe he could not find the time for that. If you want to wait longer then we should remain standing at this place."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e77c4e23e51ffacffd900286257479f1">Badr Bin Mughira called out, "Mansoor!"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e170743ebca15507c6b385bc0da583cc">Both of them stopped, turned around, ran towards him and embraced him. The second person was Bashir Bin Hassan.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ecafb298bd25f21bb4ab0127b0a974ed">Fed up with the bombardment of queries by his friends, Badr Bin Mughira said, "Come on. Let's get out of here." While walking, Badr Bin Mughira put his hand on Bashir Bin Hassan's shoulder, said something in his ear and simultaneously placed a wet handkerchief in his hand.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3dd51e3c914c8775c960f5ccb0ec8f87">Mansoor turned around, looked towards them and said, "Looks like you have not come back on your own wishes."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2a8b5b809e849ddcd9d274aaccd02130">Badr Bin Mughira replied, "You are right in your assessment."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="327b83bab5b0c232ff83dba19d93b7c0">Bashir Bin Hassan said, "I think we're out of the danger zone. Let's have your story now."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f933be449a9f996482aa63ba51890f17">Badr Bin Mughira gave a brief account of his story while walking. After walking for about a mile, the three men passed through a dense garden and entered a dilapidated house. Here, five more of their comrades were guarding the horses.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f3e825edb5390b30d394ff3ca4217d88">After all of them got on their horses, Bashir Bin Hassan enquired, "Where do we intend to go now?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9de311d0d3073fec8945c9a2433ca4bb">Badr Bin Mughira said, "I will go my way after a shortdistance. I will take these five soldiers with me into the forest. Mansoor!Send the Sultan's soldiers to Malaga as soon as it is morning and take yourcomrades and come to me. And Bashir! You go to Malaga. After apprisingAl-Zeghel and Al-Zaghairi about the events, tell them that it's to ouradvantage that I remain underground for a while. Abu Abdullah and his comradeswill promptly take the news of my death to Ferdinand, who will be ready toattack immediately. Advise Al-Zeghel, instead of attacking he should retreatinto our territory. If Ferdinand pursues, we will be able to give him adecisive defeat. There is also a possibility that he might advance towardsMalaga after making Granada as their base with Abu Abdullah's consent. In thiscase the Sultan's forces should advance forward and try to stop them at theborder and after a brief skirmish, should retreat into the forest. When thetime comes I will send you to guide them. Make sure you stress the fact that inboth cases he needs to leave at least half of the army for the protection ofMalaga.    <br/></p></pre>
</div>
</body>
</html>
