<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 7: The Nation and its Warrior</title>
  </head>
  <body><div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e"><br/></p>
                          <p data-p-id="7acce3193127d4b71a6c2b140c22dc95" style="text-align:center;"><b>(1)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="1b9b827bec9e08a2cc89e9ea3fcb04b3">The Frontier Falcon entered Granada with a thousand troops. News of his recent victory had spread to every city of the Sultanate. Aspiring for a long time, the people of Granada finally got a chance to see him. After a long time, they took out a procession for a victor. Moosa and a few senior officers of the Granada army, who received him a station before Granada on behalf of the King, also accompanied him. The King of Granada, Abul Hassan, his Crown Prince, Abu Abdullah Mohammed and the King's brother Abdullah Al-Zeghel stood on the tower of the palace's gate witnessing his grand procession. The enthusiasm of the people was a reminder of the past when the <i>mujahedeen</i> of Andalus would return after glorious victories in the north. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="027ee755e040b58a856a5d536f108248">People were showering flowers from rooftops. Badr Bin Mughira was dressed in his usual white robe. But today he didn't have his face covered. He was flanked by Moosa on his right and Al-Zaghairi on his left. Another great warrior, Naeem Ridwan, held the reins of his horse and they all were led by a <i>mujahid</i> holding the Frontier Falcon's flag bearing a crescent.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5651f67a903eaba492ff6b341e0e85c5">Crushing the flowers beneath their feet, this procession stopped at the gate of the fort. Abul Hassan looked at Al-Zeghel, and trying to fight back tears of joy said, "I always believed that he's one of us." Then he addressed Abu Abdullah, "Son, you should have gone out for his reception."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1161091480412c1682e4548f744b34cd">"Me?" Abu Abdullah said in amazement.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="383e37c20daa9967cba6aef336a8afbc">"Yes, you! It was your duty to be the first one to kiss his hand."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d532de07a8d39f3859b18fae91f59195">"But what about the honor of the royal household?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="501233f8892e9af3f9847826ad251019">Abul Hassan said, "The honor of the royal household has always been indebted to swords of such <i>mujahids</i>."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="dc20166637d92f1380d6a22dd82d1e5e">Al-Zeghel said, "You proceed to the court. I will go out to personally escort him there myself."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="11ee241f81dc94682007fda7a77ae272">Abul Hassan said, "No. Now since the question of the honor of the royal household has been raised by Abu Abdullah, it is important to have it addressed. I will personally go out to receive Badr Bin Mughira. Order all the nobles who have gathered in the court to come out and send a garland of flowers for me and let Moosa know that he should wait a little more with the procession at the gate."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0416ba6432a403e671860f42153a3b30">The people stood around Badr Bin Mughira in front of the gate of the fort, raising thundering slogans. Moosa moved forward on his horse clearing the way. However, before the procession could move forward the Administrator of the Royal Court came running out, reached close to Moosa and said, "It's the royal order that the honorable guest should be stopped here for a while."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e6acb09493c50e65f68751399f1ad9f8">After a while, Abul Hassan along with the nobles of the Sultanate appeared from the door and the people looked at him in amazement. Seeing Abul Hassan coming down the stairs, Moosa and Al-Zaghairi quickly climbed down their horses. Naeem Ridwan, who was holding the reins of Badr Bin Mughira's horse, turned around and said, "His Royal Highness himself is coming." Badr Bin Mughira jumped off his horse. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="e4b00b4a65a415cf9ebaa9f83719c071"><b>(2)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="dd584c2fc68837b53ddc74b3eccc3082">In the meantime, Abul Hassan had approached close to him. Instead of shaking his hand, he hugged him and put the garland of flowers around his neck. He then took the flag from the flag bearer and after kissing it, said, "Moosa! Give the good news to the people of Granada that from today the Frontier Falcon's flag shall flutter over our palace. Our flags have rotted. Badr Bin Mughira has brought us a new flag. Our swords were rusted. Nature has given us someone who would give them a new shimmer. We are thankful that the honorable guest has obliged us with his presence." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="7853b8d11be1b88e59495f19be1e382a">Moosa climbed the stairs to address the crowd. The people gestured at each other to maintain silence. They considered Moosa to be Granada's spokesman. When he raised his hand the people looked towards him dumbfounded. Moosa began the speech:</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="f63858972360ae2a7513304ec242e1a8">"People of Granada! Today you have among you that great <i>mujahid</i>, who has written his name in the history of Andalus with the tip of his sword, who has defeated Ferdinand's tiny-hearted army several times with a handful of <i>mujahideen</i>. Badr Bin Mughira, your Frontier Falcon, has come to you with a message and that message is that if a nation is willing to bathe in blood and is ready to jump into fire for its honor and liberty, then, no power on earth can defeat it." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="d905b53252e1c254f233d08618318c86">"Flags of our greatness has fallen in Cordova, Seville and Toledo because we had chosen for ourselves that path that takes a people from its zenith to its disgraceful fall. Our ancestors who had garnished those cities with their blood have been washed away by our tears. O Muslims! If you do not learn your lesson from the plight of the people of Cordova then remember that the historians of the future will search for your legends only in the scattered documents found in the ruins of the past."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="84b1e95d972698fa78164dfe07d4400d">"The great sultanates of Cordova and Seville were not grabbed by some forces of the enemy. We have lost them with our own hands. Our secret of progress and prosperity was on the highway shown to us by Mohammed Mustafa (PBUH). Taking that highway, we advanced from the desert of Arabia to the pastures of Hispania. Moving on this highway we crushed the crowns of Caesar and Kisra beneath our feet. This highway took us to the sizzling deserts of Africa and to the snow-covered peaks of the Alborz Mountains."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="eeda8235bca4a85a5981d1047fb14bf0">"Our degeneration began once we had left this highway. Islam had given us a chance to open the gates of the rewards of destiny but we shut this door of mercy with our own hands. Islam had given us the command to fight in the path of Allah but we fought amongst ourselves. Islam taught us to be united but we divided ourselves in groups and parties. Islam broke the idols of racism and laid the foundation of equality of brotherhood where the Arab and non-Arab were treated at par but we revived this idol in our sleeves. We left the Rope of God and bowed to the idols of nationalism and racism. In every corner of the world swords of Muslims of one race and nation clashed with swords of Muslims of another race and nation. Arab and non-Arab slit the throats of each other. Turks and Persians competed against each other and the rock of Islam reduced to a heap of sand. History is a witness that our collective strength was a flood that would bring down any wall of resistance. But when the evil of racism arose amongst us, we faced the worst of defeats by the lowest of nations. Even then we did not take heed from these events." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="e4d758a880e897f07950c43ebc3e6c33">"Muslims of Granada! I ask you, after ruling for centuries weren't the other cities of Cordova, Seville and Andalus grabbed from our hands after the evil of racism spread amongst us? Unfortunately, when the armies of the Christians were besieging these cities, the Muslims of Andalus – Arabs, Berbers and Hispanian Muslims – were trying to slit each other's throat. One by one the cities of Andalus were lost by us. Muslims were enslaved by those whom they had governed for centuries. Today, only a small Sultanate of Granada remains under our control. This is our last citadel and the enemy is planning to conquer it but we have still not taken heed. Even today the evil of racism is within us. Even now we are not ready to wipe out the differences of being Hispanian, Arabs and non-Arabs."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0d7b4c079772f11f83114921bad81b55">"Those Muslims living under the slavery of Christians, are tolerating the worst of tortures with the hope that the Muslims of Cordova will come to their rescue. You are their last support but, God forbid, if you are not able to defend even yourselves then history of the Muslims of Andalus would become a sorry legend for the generations to come and tourists would look at these ruined buildings and enquire, 'Was it really the Muslims who built these splendid buildings?'"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0158bdee20f571ce85113e1e29abc24b">"Ferdinand has demanded tribute from us and we have replied to him saying that only swords are made in our mint factory. And we have given him this reply with the confidence that our swords can defend our freedom."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="93fdf633fbeb04004570f86008796560">After Moosa's speech the people started shouting, saying that they wanted to hear something from the Frontier Falcon. Abut Hassan looked at Badr Bin Mughira and said, "Please do say a few words. Never has such a large crowd gathered in front of my palace."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="084916c59e4cdc83dfd71f9007d36a4a">In a state of confusion, Badr Bin Mughira looked here and there but Moosa held him by his hand and made him stand on the stairs.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7519f5895879191db4e531714dbd1a47">For Badr Bin Mughira, addressing such a large audience was a big challenge. For a while he kept staring at the crowd in a state of confusion. Finally, he began his speech reluctantly:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2b0dbad28282f19edd234ac638dc1b14">"Vibrant people of Granada! After the great speech of Moosa Bin Abi Ghassan, I believe there is no need for another one and maybe you too don't need any other ruckus to wake you up from your sleep after <i>Israfeel</i> has blown the horn. I strongly believe that if a people who are in a state of degeneration can produce a <i>mujahid</i> like Moosa, then, no power can wipe them out. Whomever you consider your leader, the important thing is to answer to his call with a deep conviction in your hearts. Do whatever he commands you to do. Remember! Even the best of physicians cannot help a patient who is bent on his fatality."  </p>
                          <p data-p-id="cbc3954d0879f6ad53663449070f8deb">"You are well aware of the situation around you. Dark clouds of problems have filled your horizon from all sides. In Cordova and Seville, the palaces of our authority have been razed. After ruling this country for eight hundred years, thousands of our people are being grinded in the mill of an enemy that neither has compassion nor justice for us in their hearts. Today, Granada remains our last citadel and if we were to repeat the mistakes committed by our brethren in Cordova, Seville and Toledo, then, I fear that even this region will be taken away from us someday. When the Christian nobles were getting united against us, our nobles were squabbling with each other. One infidel was embracing another infidel but one Muslim was slitting the throat of another Muslim.Our enemy proved to us that all infidels are one but we could not prove that if all infidels are one then all of Islam is also one. The enthusiasm of victory united them but even the fear of annihilation could not unite us. The Moroccan Muslim became an enemy of the Hispanian Muslim and the Berber Muslim became thirsty for the blood of the Andalusian Muslim. The eventual result was that one after the other our cities fell out of our hands." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="8a34c4b3d08a095217f4b4305558bcf5">"Once again the enemies of Islam are uniting. Now their eyes are on Granada. God forbid, if we're not even able to defend Granada then, merely the name of Muslims will remain in Andalus. Abu Moosa has already told you all these things. I just want to say one thing to you and that is that now instead of Alphonso, it is Ferdinand who wants to talk to us with swords and we have to prove that even today the Muslims know how to communicate in the language of the swords. People of Granada! A time comes in the lives of a nation when the language of the sword becomes more appropriate than that of the pen and for you that time has arrived."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bff2f3c3f3828fc65fa6daa0517bb491">After Badr Bin Mughira's speech, when the crowd was cheering, Abul Hassan said, "I am desperate to talk to you. Abu Moosa will bring you to me after this procession is over."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="38560d3d403d928e8b6a1e4e8f9e93e1"><b>(3)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="2b4688d2fb8d84f9e6b211182e7f7834">Ten days after the arrival of the Frontier Falcon, the citizens of Cordova came out of the city in their thousands and bid farewell to the army of Abul Hassan. After several years the army of Cordova was not setting out to crush a rebellion of their Sutanate's amir but was leaving to wage war on a front against an enemy. After several years, Muslim soldiers and nobles of Hispanian, Berber and Arab descent had assembled under one flag.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b0e3758a848a85b3a65861c32ec4c575">Abul Hassan first inspected the army before ordering them to depart and then said to Badr Bin Mughira, "Badr! You have joined hearts that were broken. By God! If the Arab, Berber and Hispanian Muslims stood like this shoulder-to-shoulder, then, there is no reason for us to be ashamed in front of our forefathers on the Day of Judgment. Once again we will reach upto France."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ae36364e74f18c1eff0f12a950a99cf3">Badr Bin Mughira replied, "I'm sure till such time that your sword is out of the scabbard, there won't be any discord among the people of Granada. They needed a platform to have a united front. Until our swords keep clashing with the Christians, the attention of the Muslims won't be diverted to these domestic conflicts."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="0b11261f1660fc7dbdd59eb2ca96e862">Al-Zeghel was adamant to support his brother in this mission but due to some circumstances he thought that it would be more appropriate to leave his brother in the capital with the security of the Sultanate and also to keep an eye on his son. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="1ccacb294cc36e0b5d45723fb3f12891">Abul Hassan did not include any foot soldiers in the contingent of this mission and charging with amazing speed reached the Valley of Lakka.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c8e6be65bdd6291461cd9084aaf307d7">Moosa Bin Abi Ghassan was his deputy commander while the charge of the storming units of the vanguard troops was given under Badr Bin Mughira.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2a411b13202d0987212c7e77a74ff07c">After capturing a few border areas, Abul Hassan besieged Sakhra and when this news reached Cordova, a wave of jubilation spread among the people. The Christian ruler of Sakhra had the worst replutaion among Ferdinand's agents because of the barbaric treatment he rendered to Muslims living under him. For a long time, the people of Granada were hearing the tales of horror from Muslims who would flee Sakhra to take refuge in Granada. After receiving the great news, they went to mosques and prayed for Abul Hassan's victory and long life. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="1bff86f187119699c5e1e3581b26dfc1">Abul Hassan had anticipated that the siege of Sakhra would take a long time but after four days, during the night, a group of rebel Muslims attacked the guards and opened a gate of the city. Since this group had already informed Abul Hassan of their motives, the army captured the city after crushing a minor resistance. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="247ff5e84206dfc96cf7a032f1be55ca">The number of injured was quite low in this battle and on the orders of Abul Hassan they were transferred to a spacious room of the governor's palace. During the afternoon, Abul Hassan, Moosa, Badr and a few other commanders visited the injured. The physicians taking care of the injured stood respectfully with heads bowed down but an individual who was engrossed in tying a bandage around the wounds of a soldier's head and neck did not budge from his place even when Abul Hassan came close to him. Even his attire was more that of a soldier's than of a physician or surgeon. His armor was shining.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8e2b346c6c18ad561953bd77630fdb88">Abul Hassan looked at the wounded for a second and called out to the Commander of the Medical Corps and said, "This man is in need of your attention." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="a390667202050a0393af71b992923f36">The Commander of the Medical Corps ran forwards and moving the armor-clad soldier aside said, "I had told you earlier that this is our duty."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c1ecf9678e07a2ab93f2ee756c83e3ec">When the armor-clad soldier ignored even this, then, he said sternly, "If not for me then you should at least have some consideration for His Excellency the King. A soldier's place is in the battlefield not here."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="03ed4a4575330b5adad78d0255d4fc83">The armor-clad soldier raised his neck for a few moments and replied, "Please don't waste my time. The injured man's condition is very critical."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="afbf8821ee2c6863573304d93e53c5f9">Badr Bin Mughira jolted after hearing the voice of the armor-clad soldier but since only his eyes were visible because of the aventail he was wearing, therefore, Badr could not immediately recognize him. The Commander of the Medical Corps was bewildered and said, "If you're so fond of dressing wounds then you can go out and do it on a dead body of the enemy."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f293320ccc9cd0e128faf6dbd91bb6d5">Closing the last knot in the dressing he said, "I'm not fond of dressing the wounds. I'm fond of treating the injured."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="408ad66f63962d7d65d4a1aeb8871b55">By now Abul Hassan's amazement had transformed to curiosity. However, the physician could not tolerate it anymore. While placing his hand on the injured man's pulse he called out to another physician and said, "Take him outside. He seems to be a deranged man."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5255741fb40917dd2973640d43576021">The other physician came forward but on Abul Hassan's signal he stopped short of implementing his superior's order.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8654f829b1635ece3246bfdc792c39bb">The Commander of the Medical Corps tried opening the dressing of the injured man but the armor-clad soldier stopped him and said, "His death is inevitable if you open his dressing. I would not have interfered in your work but please recall that you had left him thinking that he's incurable."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="10a32f4b36a9bfe5ab850ce8f061384a">By this time Badr Bin Mughira's skepticism were far from removed. Besides his voice, he had also recognized his bag. He was also quite familiar with the hands that had treated his wounds on a number of occasions. His amazement changed to happiness. He said to the Commander of the Medical Corps, "Don't worry. I know him. Bashir, how did you reach here?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2d52355edd1f98520f603ca1fc7b6ae8">The armor-clad soldier slid the veil off his aventail, got up and stood respectfully in front of Abul Hassan. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="8a1c92fba044e181b5118cfb15077fc8">Moosa said in amazement, "Bashir Bin Hassan! When did you arrive here?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="756d3683e906185305f2cd99e82f32f1">He replied, "I reached here today."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4096e6208866ad2ae553807feddd8739">Moosa said to Abul Hassan, "This is Bashir Bin Hassan. He takes care of our falcon's wings."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="68971fe17f5f00a6557345b2b8e518c2">Abul Hassan enthusiastically shook Bashir Bin Hassan's hands and said, "I have heard a lot of praises about you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4a647734c82e0da0d12fc713d0fa34e0">Bashir Bin Hassan kissed Abul Hassan's hand and said, "Please forgive me if I had shown disrespect. The soldier's condition was quite alarming."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0dcb42ab4a88b598b69fe12f3488c73b">The Commander of the Medical Corps stood in a state of worry, guilt and helplessness. Bashir Bin Hassan said to him, "I am guilty of unnecessarily interfering but this person lay unconscious in the market and the soldiers left him thinking he was dead. I saw signs of life in him and brought him here. Since you were extremely busy you could not give him any attention."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8ca7e8836ecf92c9f1acaa7f11f48712">The Commander of the Medical Corps stretched out his hand for a handshake and said, "It's an honor even to admit my inferiority in front of Bashir Bin Hassan. In my view, when you got him here, his condition was hopeless. He was more in need of a miracle performer than a physician and in Andalus miracles are only associated with the name of Bashir Bin Hassan. We have a few more injured who are in need of your attention."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6720f408d020ab3143fd19fd94e6cf44">Another young surgeon came forward and said, "I had seen you in Cordova but because of the aventail I could not recognize you today."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7b6946bf61658688d80524afa3713966">Bashir Bin Hassan said, "I was afraid that without the aventail it would make it more difficult to know me. Apart from this, there are a few of our men among the injured. I was afraid they would have screamed my name and you would have left the wounded and gathered around me and I would not have given proper attention to that particular injured soldier."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f0f98137dbe322c7eba5cd474ca229e1">Abul Hassan said, "We apologize for not taking that into account. Please continue. Have a look at other injured soldiers and do meet me when you are done."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6c7e28fbdbaf13a294e0674a8f7bac38">Abul Hassan, Badr Bin Mughira and Moosa went away while Bashir Bin Hassan continued tending to the needs of the wounded. Like the other cities of Andalus, his fame had also reached Granada. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="edefdd4e856206308c3547e7cc18eb85">Entire staff of the medical corps would feel honored talking to him, shaking his hand and in carrying out his orders. Another reason that they were impressed with him was because he was the Frontier Falcon's comrade. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="fb1a38863e1a98a406a0d2c4af145b6e">The Commander of the Medical Corps still felt guilty about his behavior. Finally, he said to Bashir Bin Hassan, "So far I have still not been able to find the right words to apologize to you with. I'm afraid you might have formed a negative opinion about me."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d5551c78b2597b8ad51e21cf8bdc64c1">Bashir Bin Hassan replied, "Don't worry. Had I been in your position, maybe, I would have dealt more harshly with a stranger."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7be3d5d945d03679d320651ae0994ff4">After a while the soldier whom Bashir Bin Hassan had given treatment initially started to groan in a state of being subconscious. Bashir Bin Hassan took out a medicine from his bag and while pouring it out in a cup, said to a physician, "He will be conscious in a while. Let him have this as soon as he opens his eyes. He'll go back to sleep as soon as he drinks the medicine. In the evening, I will come and have a look at him myself. In the meantime, make sure that no one wakes him or tries to talk to him."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fad3d57b4bef0f4ad55dff54679164a3"><b>(4)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="40c480d0ada4d37106c626d855153858">In the afternoon when Badr Bin Mughira got to speak to Bashir in private, he asked his friend of his unexpected arrival. Bashir Bin Hassan replied, "It was my greatest wish to witness the departure of Abul Hassan's army with my own eyes but I got this news only when the army had departed from Granada. But then I thought that I would definitely catchup with it during the battle. Abu Dawood was also quite persistent to take me along with him to Granada. On my request and Abu Dawood's recommendation, Mansour Bin Ahmed granted me permission. On reaching Granada I came to know that you had besieged Sakhra. I charged away and reached here this morning only to learn that the city has been captured."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ab0bbc7f06d340a6734c0d2fa58ffef3">Badr Bin Mughira said while smiling, "And since I was not injured, therefore, your medicines were used for the benefit of others. Tell me honestly, wasn't all this running around not for me?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7dff1b7b6e241741b73ec2996a2bf592">"Your safety is the purpose of my life."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0f39fb6b0cffe4b64f49c90cb0462ec0">"I don't think an individual's safety is that big a purpose that one should be proud of."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="38f2988a339da358523317fe44b9f6c9">Bashir Bin Hassan looked at his friend in reverence and said, "Badr! For me you're not an individual but a nation. And if I were to use a physician's language, I would say that you're a throbbing heart in Hispania's unhealthy body."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a7d68dd9ee5a1e1b9f3e4f11feceff2a">Badr said, "That's a poet's language."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4c0256b92a097e58ea40e52fb36d9d6b">Bashir replied, "Thank God I'm not a poet. I had met a few poets at Al-Zeghel's food-spread. Each one of them was competing with each other in praising you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4251af61064a564e3501ec4e75f5dfb2">"What were they saying about me?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8f0efd7538353f8e0ac93f2d9caea770">"Just that you can fly in the air, walk on water, the stormy waves of the ocean pacify on seeing you and the river..."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="66b93d8e3294d2713ef060f253729668">"The river what...?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cd96fa2cdc6574680377538e6d304f24">"I don't recall but I believe they said that the rivers retreat back to the mountains."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d1243e7e9ec9fd0a53e7085e3e22ed85">Badr said, "How silly of them."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6a3cc7f043957959e94de147cc821221">Bashir Bin Hassan said while suppressing his laughter, "No, not all of them were silly. There was one who said something sensible too."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="290a7e1df1609abed9876d65b35cd804">"And what was that?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5bfe8166049ea90416b840d44690f424">"That the Frontier Falcon's horse is whiter than Mount Sierra Nevada's snow. When it walks it causes the land to shake. The shimmer of his sword blinds the eyes of the sun."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7edbb7c73a1feb5e36ba47ebfc464ce1">Badr Bin Mughira said, "Bashir, is it the victory or some other reason for your happiness."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="23e19d19b924a24b98d38e14d107c203">Bashir replied, "Badr! I'm really very happy. I strongly feel that the time has arrived for the dreams of several years to be realized."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5eda6f43fa1ac3ffbde829709ed57ae1">Badr enquired, "How is Angela?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f7f6a2b84fb2bdbe642f8ec6d5060459">Bashir replied, "She is fine but you did not ask about Rabia."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="427cb5c20325c7567db2b2ddcffbbc0e">"What happened to her?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8f1f00f6f56bf5098f1f0c83aa1ec099">"What? You don't even know?" Bashir said in a grave tone.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6c6b2372ce04f7aec902bce951ea3240">"Bashir, have you brought some bad news about her."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="35dbe3f2cbf12ba5a35e89521410a629">Bashir laughed.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="75e2bdb12dab711c78075656f8b359b9">Badr said, "You are a clown."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7e0ad60fdd66a233ca14d18a4c517cbc">Bashir said, "She sends you her '<i>Salaam'</i>."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="eb98e5d80cbc2f97dcc1c25590940df0">"Lie!"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1d2c3fe6c0c8e0c0024c3c35b17a982b">"Okay my dear brother. Just think that she prays for your well-being."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8423e83195c3cc84ecd35c0908a7a2fe">"I have no objection in believing that. Anyway stop joking. How is Abu Dawood?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="06cb5f819c0c19d656ca4b6bd3fa8dae">"He is very happy. On reaching Granada, Al-Zeghel has make him Prince Abu Abdullah's special companion. He has been given a house in the Al-Hamra Palace. I think he'll make the prince become his fan in no time."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b0b2594ff09a031e250a7e6415b6a55b">The direction of their conversation changed as Moosa approached. He informed them that Abul Hassan would like to see them.</p></pre>
</div>
</body>
</html>
