<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 12: The Man-in-Black</title>
  </head>
  <body><div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="7acce3193127d4b71a6c2b140c22dc95"><b>(1)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="cb46700ea3871a84c359b17b744c7e41">The rumor of Badr Bin Mughira's assassination spread in the length and breadth of Andalus like wildfire. It was Abu Abdullah's wish for this news not spread among the people of Granada but Abu Dawood advised him that this news would dishearten Abul Hassan's supporters. So, a few paid orators were assigned to broadcast the news of the Frontier Falcon's assassination among the people of Granada.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3444644002e55caa65c72db8455b73da">Abu Dawood dispatched his emissary to Ferdinand with the message that this was the right time to strike a final blow to Abul Hassan.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2758c087b0ff6fb3357bb71027c90959">According to his own opinion, Abu Abdullah thought that that he had gotten rid of his greatest enemy. However, the presence of the Frontier Falcon's comrades in the vicinity of Granada was no less disturbing for him. But when he heard that the Frontier Falcon's comrades have decided to leave instead of laying a siege on Granada, his jubilation had no bounds. Two or three days later when he got the news that they were abandoning Abul Hassan and leaving Malaga also, he feasted in the palace and distributed prizes among the nation sellers.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c18d9fa2c296ffec32bc58a124167b74">After a few days an emissary of Ferdinand came and informed him that in a few weeks their forces would reach the southern coast of Andalus. He informed and said, "Major part of the army would advance from the north and east towards Mount Nevada to crush the strength of the border tribes. The other contingent would head east of Cadiz and Jerez De La Frontera. Both armies would meet in the mountains of Sierra Nevada and then capture all the cities near the coastline. In the meantime, you need to immediately come out of Granada and attack Malaga. We anticipate that you will be able to capture Malaga by that time. However, if you are unable to capture Malaga due to stiff resistance of the enemy, which I doubt, then the ruler of Cadiz will come to your aid."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="860ab8cfa5f2c839175d6fb941791266">Abu Abdullah thought that after assassinating Badr Bin Mughira, he had cleared every thorn in Ferdinand's path. He was confident that his ally and patron would not burden his shoulders with another war. He would descend on Malaga like a storm and return after annihilating his enemies and after recognizing him as the sole ruler of Andalus. On hearing Ferdinand's message, he nervously asked Abu Dawood, "In the given circumstances, doesn't Ferdinand know that the most secure place for me are the confines of the four walls of Al-Hamra? After the Frontier Falcon's assassination, the people of Granada are extremely infuriated with me. As for the army, I fear that in case I invade my father, some of them might defect to his side."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="600fc1153b8b98190dcf6aeea2dd1fdc">Abu Dawood understood Ferdinand's strategy. He knew that Ferdinand could not trust Abu Abdullah completely and therefore he wanted him to attack Malaga so that the gulf of hatred between the father and son would become so wide that there would be no chance of a reconciliation between them. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="3900e45f3066b17c434b0993917ed7ea">So he replied, "Maybe he desires to divide the enemy's attention on three fronts. If you avoid going to war, then he might even give up the idea of supporting you. Therefore, you should attack Malaga without any further delay. The Frontier Falcon and his comrades were the enemy's biggest support. The Frontier Falcon has been killed and his companions have returned to their homes, so possibly, you can capture Malaga before Ferdinand's arrival. After Malaga's victory, all the rebel chiefs and tribes of the south would bear allegiance to you and this way you wouldn't have to take Ferdinand's favor."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="73e01a76325370af666db402e1a53c52">Abu Abdullah replied, "I am ready to attack Malaga but only when Ferdinand's armies have entered the bordering areas."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a644c40378e21ceb4932f787981e6062">Abu Dawood replied, "If you so command, I can dispatch this reply."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="af066b50beefe9e7a6d2f4f5e93d6ffc">"Sure! But write it in such a way that the King should not think that I am a coward. I only want to be cautious."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e4b00b4a65a415cf9ebaa9f83719c071"><b>(2)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="4690766393159431813434a7181a8654">Abul Hassan had become paralyzed and blind. On the insistence of the emirs he nominated his brother, Al-Zeghel, as his successor. Ferdinand left Castile with his innumerable army, camped near Cordova and prepared to serve a final blow to the Muslims' last bastion of defense in Andalus.  He ordered the Christian nobles of Jerez De La Frontera, Seville and Cadiz to advance toward Sierra Nevada ravaging the cities South West of Granada and for another part of the army to be given under an experienced general to subdue the border tribes in the North East.</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="381aeadbccd6da92c419ec3dbd7a877a">When Ferdinand's army entered Badr Bin Mughira's independent territory, they hardly faced any stiff resistance apart from an attack or two from the rear and the side flanks. The Christians had destroyed a number of cities along their path and marched in the Frontier Falcon's territory in high spirits. One day their general delivered a speech in front of his troops after capturing a deserted fort and said:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3e65bca19fc462e869de2534701e37d4">"Brave Men! This was the area where no bird would flap its wings without the Frontier Falcon's permission. Now the leader of these rebels is gone and their morale is low. Our King thought that we would have to face stiff resistance but these people run away on hearing the trotting of our horses. Our swords are thirsty for the blood of the enemy but it looks as if their thirst won't be quenched until we reach Malaga. Therefore, we should forge forward without resting in between. We don't want our brothers, who are advancing from Cadiz towards Malaga to take precedence over us."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c05bafb8e3422451cf7ccbe89da812d3">The next day when they were passing through the forest, they faced some unprecedented situations. The rear flank was suddenly attacked by a thousand horsemen who killed three thousand men within moments of the attack and disappeared into the forest. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="bd2f8675a68c9f546f59966b06ad008e">Badr Bin Mughira's biggest success was that after an attack or two, he had maneuvered the enemy's army into dangerous gorges and pathways where every cliff could become an impregnable fort for the attackers. Some seasoned officers of the Christian army advised their general to change their route but he was blinded by power. Like the general, his soldiers too, who would normally be cautious in such pathways, were confident that the rebellious border tribes would have given up hope after the Frontier Falcon's death. Under the leadership of the man-in-black, the thousand horsemen had inflicted substantial damage to them and it was intolerable for the Christians to move forward without getting even with them.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="086f6739ad59e3859ca8be5dc56ce2b0">One evening the Christian army chased the frontier horsemen through difficult and narrow pathways and ended up into a valley after passing a narrow gorge. Huge mountains stood in front. Therefore, the general ordered the army to encamp there. To neutralize any unprecedented attack, he dispatched a few units to the mountains in the vicinity to stay on guard. After having a day of onslaught, the weary army slept, once they had a stomach full of food and wine. Even the general and the other officers slept thinking that the troops on guard on the mountains in the vicinity were enough to repel any unprecedented attack. Suddenly, in the third part of the night, the screams of the guards were heard. The general got up in distress, and came out of his tent rubbing his eyes. There was groaning everywhere and all around there were several tents on fire. The Christian army tried to reach for their swords but suddenly a rain of arrows ensued. Several troops were killed by the attackers in the illumination of the fire. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="8820ddc9bf632c8e01c8773f95aaf135">The general ordered the troops to take cover in the darkness. The troops started moving away from the burning tents. All of a sudden, cries of "Allahu Akbar" resonated all around and within moments the attackers descended and fell upon the bewildered Christians troops. In the darkness, several Christian swords clashed with each other. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="0ec9f9e92931983924a15f4df534320c">Believing that the number of attackers would be few in numbers, the general ordered his troops to spread out and capture the mountains but the intense rain of stones and arrows prevented them from doing so. By dawn the condition of the Christians was such that neither the officers nor the soldiers were aware of each other's plight. They tried to save their own lives by hiding behind rocks and trees. The attackers had captured and were riding many of the Christians' horses. The rest of the horses that were cut loose were aimlessly running here and there in the forest. Many of their troops were crushed under their feet. In the light of the morning, the Christians saw that the attackers had captured their horses and were now using them by attacking them with lances. The Christian general had hoped that the attackers would flee with the approaching morning but observing their enthusiasm, he concluded that they had chosen this valley for a decisive battle. The corpses of the Christians in the field were demoralizing. Compared to the attackers, their army was still five times greater but the continuous attacks in the valley by the horsemen had uprooted them. The general decided to retreat by battling defensively. Exiting the valley and entering into a narrow gorge, he thought that his troops were now safe from the range of the lancers but here too he could not take a sigh of relief. Once again the cries of the <i>mujahideen</i> hiding behind grisly rocks were heard and the rain of stones and arrows ensued.    </p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="818021c72e35b815b7f9f527b6107aa5">A stone came and hit the general and he fell down. The troops became hopeless as soon as he died. The lieutenant general ordered the army to quickly leave the valley. After coming out of the rain of stones and arrows and reaching an even area, the lieutenant general took stock of his remaining troops. Out of twenty thousand troops only eight thousand remained. Fearing the danger of being pursued, he did not even allow his troops to catch their breath. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="9d773e1685745a74449c51dfec5d3557">After moving for about two miles, this army was now entering a dense forest when suddenly about a thousand horsemen appeared from behind the trees and in the first assault itself they threw the Christian army in disarray. Leading the attackers was the very same man-in-black whom the Christian general eagerly wanted to capture alive and who had brought him into these perilous regions. About two thousand Christians fled and hid in the forest while the remainder of the army surrendered after putting up a brief resistance. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="38560d3d403d928e8b6a1e4e8f9e93e1"><b>(3)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="077722331b42481bb2052d968c61d321">After posting Al-Zaghairi for Malaga's protection, Al-Zeghel along with five thousand warriors kept retreating after fighting defensively against the cowardly army of Cordova, Seville, Cadiz and other cities of the northwest and waited for the Frontier Falcon after reaching the foot of the Sierra Nevada.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="32983db46fcdf8530078011621fafebd">Ferdinand was receiving very encouraging news of his general's successes in the valley of the falcons. After hearing the news of Al-Zeghel's repulse and retreat towards Sierra Nevada, he sent a message to the generals of both his armies that instead of heading towards the coastal areas they should corner Al-Zeghel from both sides. At the same time, he sent a message to Abu Abdullah in Granada that he should attack Malaga immediately. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="7e35d8b82a23610fcc3abedf6fb5c716">Abu Abdullah had already received the news that major part of the army was with Al-Zeghel and that Al-Zaghairi was guarding the city with a very small number of troops. Therefore, thinking that victory was imminent, he invaded Malaga. Besides the chiefs who were bought-out by Ferdinand, the army also comprised of people who were hopeless about the future of the Muslims in Andalus and were pleasing Ferdinand just so that they could live. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="e19de2aa47449ecd9559a7ca2ea2523e">A day before Abu Abdullah left Granada with his army, Ferdinand's army had been annihilated and three days later, the Frontier Falcon's warriors had rallied under Al-Zeghel's banner. Al-Zeghel's army feared the enemy's size but their morale was boosted when they heard about the glorious victory. Al-Zeghel inspected all the checkposts around his camp alongwith Badr Bin Mughira and Mansour Bin Ahmed. Apart from Badr Bin Mughira's men, no one knew that he was alive. On seeing a veiled person with Al-Zeghel they would believe that after the snatching of Badr Bin Mughira, destiny had given them a new supporter. His camp was a little away from the encampment of the rest of the army and only a few selected officers of Al-Zeghel's army, who knew about this secret, had the permission to go there. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="92d0e8dc9cfdee40742bf60c24825af6">The bellicose tribes of Alpujarras thronged under Al-Zeghel's banner. After a long time, they got a chance to fight alongside the <i>mujahideen</i> of the falcon's territory. Because Mansour Bin Ahmed used to be considered Badr Bin Mughira's successor, therefore, they requested Al-Zeghel to give them under Mansour Bin Ahmed's command. Mansoor prepared the battle map according to Badr Bin Mughira's instructions and spread the tribal <i>mujahideen</i> on the entire pathways. He instructed them to seal the areas behind the Christian army as it advanced forward.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="027345b9993353100438d6f9e000ae7a">This battalion was unaware of the consequence suffered by the army that had attacked the territory of the falcon. After encamping for five days at the fort of the Sierra Nevada they kept waiting for a message from its general. However, a few night raids by the tribal <i>mujahideen</i> compelled them to move forward. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="95e494f8824270c669957e23ff2a2c2b">After burning a few settlements and capturing a few men and women during their three-day advancement, Ferdinand's battalion had finally entered this dangerous territory where the falcons of the frontier were anxiously waiting. </p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="6a47969a0085a45215fa92d49a8b144c">Badr Bin Mughira attacked the enemy's vanguard troops with a thousand of his elite warriors and vanished into the mountains after devastating them. While the General was coming to terms with the situation, he got the news of a rear attack by the tribes. This area was not wide enough for a full-fledged battle. The General commanded his troops to march forward swiftly. After this ravine was a steep slope followed by a valley. Feeling the intensity of the rear attack he decided to descend into the valley. After about two miles the lower part of this valley merged into a wide forest and its highland showed a narrow gulley between two mountains. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="b58e20f31a428be1c1073e5377ec7414">On one side, the General considered the tribal attackers to be extremely dangerous in the forest and on the other, he feared of being surrounded in a narrow gulley. He ordered the army to halt and sent the vanguard units in both directions to check the paths while he waited for the attackers. Moments later his rear troops also caught up and reported that they have repelled the attack of the aggressors.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7e02d7dcbc2396099b35078b5bccb929">The vanguard troops that advanced towards the lower part of the territory returned after facing a volley of arrows as soon as they entered into the forest and reported that the forest was infested with archers. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="900aae46ce8e4e02cbfa250893cd88f9">The troops that had gone to the other side of the valley reported that they had scanned the area within ten miles. This area was wide in some places and narrow at some. On both sides there were high mountains. They also reported that they had not spotted any enemy soldiers. Some shepherds informed them that after a distance of two days the valley merges into the fertile lands where the tribal settlements of Alpujarras begin. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="ce6176e19b32127e70cec6d568707082">The Christian General viewed this route also as being dangerous. Even after encamping here, he feared of being surrounded from all sides. He also feared that even if the attackers come out of the mountains and did not engage him in a proper battle even then they could inflict substantial damage by conducting night raids. Facing him were the mountains of Sierra Nevada. On his left was the forest which was impossible to cleanse from the enemy. Behind him was the slope where he would have to pass through the narrow ravine again where he had already incurred a huge loss. He also felt that once he turned back, the army hiding in the forest would ascend the mountains and block his path. Inevitably, he decided to take the route on the right. When the valley would be narrow, the foot soldiers would climb the mountains on both sides to secure the army from the enemy's rocks and arrows. And when the valley would become wide they would come down from the difficult terrain and join up with the mounted troops. They continued moving this way until evening without any incident. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="ea501f86240f99e47d6c0570ef7fe038">It was night but the General could not find a suitable place to encamp. After moving for a while in the darkness of the night, the narrow valley and mountains on both sides appeared to be huge. The darkness was so much that some horses almost tripped. Some officers advised the General that it seemed that the valley had no end. They opinioned that it might take them where it could become difficult to move forward and where the enemy might be lying waiting for them. Therefore, they advised that it would be better to either return back or get rid of the horses in the valley and take to the mountains. This way they would be in a better position to retaliate in case of an unprecedented attack. They also said that in the light of the morning if they had to return, even then, their foot-soldiers would ascend the mountains and secure the path. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="0f8dd4af88a8be7fc3c5220d4eee5f3b">As they were contemplating their options a rock fell from above. Perplexed, they stared at each other in the darkness of the night with eyes wide open. Moments later, a few more rocks fell and the screams of the casualties could be heard and this culminated into a rain of rocks. The General ordered the army to push back but there was no reduction in the pace of the raining rocks. The sound of rocks and the screams of the injured coupled with neighing horses, depicted a scene of doomsday. The attackers were raising the slogans of "Allahu Akbar" from the top of the mountains.</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="e704b2754a134da57f0b102a091fab58">To prevent his army from annihilation the General ordered his troops to dismount the horses and take to the mountains. But only a few horsemen got to hear his orders in the clamor. The ones who could hear his command and wanted to comply, soon realized that it was not easy climbing the rocks. Most horsemen had turned the reins of their horses with the intention of getting to wider area of the valley.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5b6901daed035b66ef3448e33f6ecc24">Until morning this army rambled and faced immense destruction. Out of thirty thousand troops, twelve thousand became the target of rocks. Five thousand climbed the mountains and successfully escaped. The rest of the army reached where they had initially started their journey but they did not get time to stabilize. Fresh horsemen emerged from the forest. Their General had the flag of Granada in his hand. Within moments, they flew their horses and quickly reached over their heads. The Christians still outnumbered them. They fought intensely but soon five thousand additional troops descended a mountain under the leadership of a masked man. Their flag sported a picture of a falcon. They threw the enemy lines in disarray in the first charge. The battlefield started echoing with cries of "Long Live Islam", "Long Live Granada", "Long Live Al-Zeghel" and "Long Live the <i>Mujahideen</i>". </p>
                          <p data-p-id="006ee13fcb9c6cc1d932d1213bf81289">Three thousand horsemen of Ferdinand's army left the battlefield and headed towards the forest while the rest threw down their arms. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="254e5201569bde461426abe7bbf3df93">The prisoners also comprised of about two thousand of Ferdinand's knights and his army's high ranking officers.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fad3d57b4bef0f4ad55dff54679164a3"><b>(4)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="00d1bced8c4dc93df4b0ba53be4d615c">Abu Abdullah ultimately set out for Malaga. He had come to know that Al-Zeghel had left Malaga and taken to the mountains and only a small army was protecting Malaga. Besides this, he consoled in the fact that even if he is not successful in taking the city quickly, Ferdinand's forces would arrive for his support within a few days after completing their mission of subduing the tribes of the mountains. But Al-Zaghairi came out of the city and battled with him. Al-Zaghairi's troops were smaller but compared to Abu Abdullah's mercenaries they had far more zest and zeal. When the armies faced each other, Al-Zaghairi, made an inspiring speech in front of his army and said:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c3377f9dbfc01c68f2fb5e031a9a8453">"The enemy's numbers are greater than yours but remember that a traitor is never brave. Today your battle is for your survival. If you lose, Ferdinand's flag will be hoisted by Abu Abdullah over Malaga. Have trust in Allah's support. These nation sellers and mercenaries are no competition for you. Abu Abdullah's biggest support is Ferdinand but you have heard the good news that half of his army has been devastated in the territory of the falcon by a handful of <i>mujahideen</i>." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="b0af8d45dbf4c93089eb2809b0a92455" style="text-align:left;">"In the coming days, God-willing, you will also hear that the rest of his army in Sierra Nevada has had the same fate. <i>Mujahids</i>! Advance forward! The group chosen by God for today's victory is none but you."<br/></p>
                          <p data-p-id="4ab570aa7dc0b6cc1b7fe329f701408e">Abu Abdullah and most of his companions had come with the intention of laying siege of the city. Challenging a warrior like Al-Zaghairi in an open field was totally against their wishes. While they were in the midst of this confusion, a General of Al-Zaghairi's army galloped into the field and cried loudly:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c028f51af1010384803611d921d3039d">"A Muslim only fights for the truth. If anyone of you thinks that they are on the truth, then I invite him to a duel. If your heart is a witness to the fact that you are not on the truth, then know that you won't be able to stand up against us. You have come here based on Ferdinand's support but know that not even one soldier of his will come to your aid. Half of his army has been destroyed in the Territory of the Falcon and the other half has been surrounded by our Supreme Commander. Abu Abdullah! Even then if you want to fight then come into the battlefield yourself. Maybe your culmination will bring those people who have been misguided to the right path."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="23507e2602e54e5e9bbdedb7950f1838">Abu Abdullah looked towards his soldiers and seeing the hopelessness on their faces said, </p>
                          <p data-p-id="b2373d525b1226762c9c7145c8401992">"That is a lie. Don't listen to him. No power can defeat Ferdinand."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="aaf1df0569402f18457b940fb213368d">On Abu Abdullah's cue a Berber chief prompted his horse forward. A <i>mujahid</i> of Malaga raised a lance and attacked after making a round with his horse. Moments later, Abu Abdullah's army saw the Berber chief agonizing on the ground. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="bd0ba8760ef8afdfc4c1d1b8cab154af">Al-Zaghairi's army waited for his signal. Al-Zaghairi shouted "Allahu Akbar" as he raised his lance and the <i>mujahideen</i> of Malaga attacked Abu Abdullah's army like a storm.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="262140e2fdf238a3e1a95856c3e4b9f7">After an hour the battalion of nation-sellers was heading towards Granada leaving four hundred corpses in the battlefield. Al-Zaghairi intercepted them for a distance but returned back thinking Malaga was vulnerable.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b0e6b4bfa8c3cfa09e49463b416353cd">Before Abu Abdullah reached Granada, its dwellers had already received the news of the glorious victory of the Muslims in Sierra Nevada and the Territory of the Falcon. There were celebrations in the markets and streets. Some gathered in the mosques and prayed for Al-Zeghel's long life while some gathered at road intersections encircling poets and listened to their odes and tributes honoring the frontier warriors and tribal <i>mujahideen</i>.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0fae59d952dcf14cd577d7f745122f45">Shortly after Abu Abdullah entered the Al-Hamra palace, the news of his defeat spread in the entire city and the people started gathering outside the gate of his palace. The guards closed the gate.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4e64f51c3997e72a70b5c4cb0e3ccb3e">As soon as Abu Abdullah entered the palace, the Sultanate's deputy informed him that he had already confirmed the news of the Christians' defeat on both fronts. He said, "Some of Ferdinand's defeated troops had strayed into a settlement close to Granada. The settlement's chief brought them to me. One of them was from the army that was destroyed in the Territory of the Falcon and the rest were those who were successful in escaping Al-Zeghel's attack in Sierra Nevada. I received similar news from a number of protectors of the checkposts of Granada that they have seen bands of Christian troops that fled the battlefield. The news has caused jubilation among the citizens and besides the Grand Mufti, the students have also killed chiefs that were loyal to you. They have also burned several homes belonging to troops that accompanied you to the expedition".</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7f3fc3a9e6c95baeee572f20ea9ced1f">To take a stock of the new scenario, Abu Abdullah called for a meeting of the nobles in the Dar Al-Aswad as he sat in a separate room and asked a slave to go and fetch Abu Dawood. While the slave went to call Abu Dawood, Abu Abdullah got up and started strolling in the room. Later, the slave returned and informed Abu Abdullah that Abu Dawood had gone away somewhere.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="28211c75e7608990942695044a60f12b">Abu Abdullah asked anxiously, "Where?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e8f3ad725dbe51b7a66a3eb2a03123b5">The slave replied, "Only the warden has this information and he requests the honor to present himself."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="209cbc951b52e16b3eee318d588c98bc">Abu Abdullah said, "Call him immediately."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a587aa281260628a15f7b80117ed25de">Moments later the warden of Al-Hamra entered the room and stood in front of Abu Abdullah with his head bowed down. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="037a0b1b854e3b3f5f011991ede5d11d">Abu Abdullah enquired, "Do you know where Abu Dawood has gone?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3cd02a0a84acff17f764d8242c51eb59">The warden replied, "All he told me was that he was going away to implement your orders."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2b182e260df124b631c2ead39dc15162">"He has gone somewhere out of Granada."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9f97fe27d55fddea89d25f8440d10a9c">"He left in a coach from here. He has also taken his essential belongings with him."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a571e14553749dbe1955617196b85575">"Go and ask his family. No! I will go myself." Abu Abdullah advanced towards the door but the warden said, "His residence is empty."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f89ba6d37c9598f4cae6d0f8d8f29642">"What did you say?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2da8dc1e0424550ce7ced8836d1ef90a">"All of them have left."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="500c8b674bae1eae596e07d50d175de1">Abu Abdullah was aghast and looking towards the warden said, "When did they leave?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="285ef87f1e48178100a5b9a9e57e8048">"Today at noon."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4a853bcf232d4726f0945d4ba5d8df1c">"Why didn't you stop them?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0b53f74c3be692697c29cab594ca0ea9">"I couldn't dare to do that without your permission." </p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="ef9f8976b07cd0a98c064ec5fe897c65">"Did any emissary come to him?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0606cdc9202199a68fc34768152a3c71">"No. But it seems that he was quite disturbed after hearing the news of the Christians' defeat."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="852f7a2c77310610d6ccc6299b586a5b">"Has he left any message for me?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cc55342358fb60a3bef45dbac0b7cc07">"No. He said he is going away somewhere to carry out your orders. Because there were mobs of people at the gates of Al-Hamra, they had to leave using the back door. He didn't even want anyone from outside to recognize him therefore he donned the attire of a Moroccan merchant."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a390e1b9e51b23cecd6913d9d0ccab95">Abu Abdullah dismissed the warden and after contemplating alone for a while entered the chamber where the emirs had gathered.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4e1d8cddfa0d7c2d9f336c22517f104f"><b>(5)</b></p>
                          <p data-p-id="b738838adde186710f08932baf40e4ad">Abu Abdullah's comrades were the type of people, having a defeated type of mentality, who had tried to carve out a future for themselves with the Christians, once they thought that the Muslims would surely be defeated in the upcoming battles. Abu Dawood had convinced them that Ferdinand would certainly pay them for their treachery once the time came but Ferdinand's defeat and Abu Dawood's sudden disappearance only multiplied their concerns.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="40bc5f4e99a9c51cf11eca5ecde7ef18">When Abu Abdullah entered Dar Al-Aswad, he noticed that a lot of seats were empty. On enquiring he found out that some emirs had gone underground on hearing the defeat of the Christians. He was also told that it could be quite possible that some could have gone and joined up with Al-Zeghel while some could have joined-up with the demonstrators.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="453299a3a8debf03bb5035c2d3c1bbb6">Abu Abdullah enquired from the audience, "What is your opinion now?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8ab9bdbb4a550491c90e9d6681c4027a">They started looking at each other. Finally, a chief stood up and said, "Great Sultan! Very soon Al-Zeghel's armies will be standing at the gates of Granada. The people's zeal and excitement is such that if it was not for Al-Hamra's impregnable boundary and iron gates, they would not spare anyone of us today. The ones we trusted the most are the ones leading them. After the defeat at Malaga, our army does not have the courage to fight Al-Zeghel. If he captures Granada, he will hang each one of us just for avenging the Frontier Falcon's crime alone. The only way out for us is to leave Granada and take refuge with Ferdinand. He will certainly avenge his defeat. I'm sure that Ferdinand must have sent a very small army for this mission and he would not sit quietly after this defeat. Presently, Granada is insecure for us. If it was secure, Abu Dawood wouldn't have disappeared so suddenly. Now the biggest challenge in front of us is how could we be saved from Al-Zeghel's revenge."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2af915f427de3240bcb0113cc86f2c36">One after the other, each one of the nobles supported this advice. Abu Abdullah thought for a long while with his head bowed down. Finally, he said, "If this is your opinion then I will not oppose it."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d7fce8996ba66682ac6281607b1c6df0">Taking a sigh of relief, the chief said, "So it would be better if we left as soon as possible. I think leaving at night would be better but today an agitated mob has surrounded Al-Hamra. Therefore, we should be prepared for tomorrow night."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="72d9032e61e3e8b7c6963362da20a2af">Abu Abdullah dismissed the assembly and ordered the Prime Minister to stay behind. For a while, both contemplated about their future with different options.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ba7ca2a2aa45cfff1ec9f733cb55afa8">Abu Abdullah said, "Are you convinced that Ferdinand would be ready to wage another war to restore my lost throne after incurring such a huge loss. Taking my uncle as a formidable enemy, wouldn't he extend a hand of compromise instead of waging war to save a weak and defeated ally? Let's say for the sake of reaching a compromise with my father and uncle he hands me and you over to them?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2a6ebf405d25a1ad62b726dac07b1d96">The minister thought for a while and said, "Future events will predict whether the steps we took were right or not. In any case, we have associated our future with Ferdinand. Now the only way out for us is to go to him. Abu Dawood has reached there and with his presence it would only be a miracle if Ferdinand extends a hand of friendship towards Al-Zeghel or your father. Don't worry. Ferdinand would be needing us until he has avenged his defeats."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="62aed66a8f0663cf603c88995c1dcd38">The Warden of Al-Hamra entered the chamber, came forward and said after paying his respects, "The Governor of the Northern Frontier requests permission to appear."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="17a77cde833f8820d8cfec211edbfa20">Abu Abdullah looked at the warden and burst out annoyingly, "Don't you know that at the moment we are talking to the Prime Minister?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8c24a96e43f939ed9f32fa2937582ef6">The warden said, "Great Sultan! I tried to stop him but he insisted to meet with you. He has come with some important news."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="09e87b44f0c53f6ff43b1311bb227aa6">The minister said, "But why has he entered Al-Hamra at this time?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9818b93ece7e17c73189f0b3c5da09e5">The warden replied, "Today evening, just before the arrival of the Great Sultan, an honorable lady of the city who has been given permission by the Great Queen to enter Al-Hamra at anytime had come to the Great Queen with some message from him and the Great Queen ordered me to call him into the palace."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3996c73754b57923e0cb8c6158c81b83">Abu Abdullah asked, "The Queen has already met him?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e0083684e789501b9baab07bf44055ac">"Yes. And she had ordered me that I should come to Your Majesty and take permission for him to meet with you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e8ba1cfd19a278d6456adc0a61a99f97">Abu Abdullah asked, "Where is he now?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c1fdce7cda473cb8987c6f2cf94e2bb0">"He is standing outside by the door. He was insisting that he should be presented in front of you during the meeting with the emirs itself but I stopped him with great difficulty. He is very disturbed."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="762d0a8b498d3d856f93f472ce38ccd9">Abu Abdullah said, "If he has come with the news that Ferdinand's armies have been defeated then tell him that I cannot meet him."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e964b218c18b4669d03e4d1e7200c12f">"Great Sultan! He is injured and the Great Queen said that it is very important that he meets with you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7f974aca15eb2e1bbb4514e03957e7db">Abu Abdullah said, "Okay. Call him."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5bf2494448aa756c0084ad6dbebfe636">The warden offered his salutations and went out. Moments later, a tall, strong youth entered the chamber. He had a white bandage on his forehead and with his right hand he was supporting his left arm that was hanging on a handkerchief around his neck.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c1e4bee04559f35847e86b724136a3ef">"Great Sultan!" He respectfully offered his salutations and said, "I apologize for causing disturbance to your rest at this time but it was important for me to be presented before you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9b0b43bbda7fb4192e1921c59be06977">Abu Abdullah said, "You are injured."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="eb0408738e68740c9abe3e212cea14fa">Being indifferent, he replied, "These injuries are trivial. I have come to you with very sad news."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d7518545a26456001221f5ae3b69320d">Abu Abdullah said, "If you have come with the news that my uncle is going to attack Granada or that Ferdinand's army has fled the battlefield then you won't be adding to what we already know."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="174f8e0196ed7680b3eba75316947442">"Great Sultan! I only want to tell you about my region."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="76131743e8b74c216fa4ddb00d073679">"The people there must have rebelled against us. We are not interested even in such news. The rebels of your region would not be raising slogans against us more vehemently than the rebels of Granada."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5017def167222a9917d3e7417d69e1d9">"No. I have not come here to represent the rebels. I have come to bring the voice of the oppressed to your majesty's ears. To seek revenge, the fleeing troops of the defeated Christian army have created havoc along the border. They have burned fifteen of our settlements. Apart from looting the people's goods and wealth, they have also kidnapped about forty young girls. Christian soldiers of many checkposts from across the border have also entered into our area. I had a total of five hundred soldiers yesterday. Out of these, nearly three hundred have been killed. The numbers of the perpetrators are increasing over time. They are killing all the women, children and the elderly. They started a war against us without any declaration. The area along the border is becoming empty. If we don't stop this storm of barbarism and savagery immediately then within two or three days several thousand refugees would leave their homes and head for Granada."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b4ee95b33a1865de6c063ce7a76ac37f">Abu Abdullah said, "What can you expect from me in such circumstances?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d27912562b2ec703725d0f9cee8da491">The youth replied with a bit of fervor, "I won't say anything on my own. I have delivered to the Great Sultan's ears the voice of those daughters of my nation whose honor is being looted, whose infants are being killed in front of them. If the Great Sultan asks me what is it that they want, then I would reply by saying that we should immediately declare war against these dacoits and looters." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="d50374e88d9490b6567ecef2ff010f27">Abu Abdullah said, "Currently, our biggest concern is to keep the agitating people away from Al-Hamra. If you don't have an idea of the problem we're facing, then, go and see the people that are gathered at the gates yourself."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8e4e9604428149d7ce6773f6c42a1885">"I have already seen them and even here I can hear the sound of their voices. All of them are saying that the Christian are our enemies. They have made life difficult for their Muslim subjects in Hispania and now they want to play the same game in the Sultanate of Granada."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1f02ace678b95ce28ae76f55ac426843">Abu Abdullah replied, "Your ears are quite sharp but can't you hear them shouting, 'Abu Abdullah is a traitor' and 'destroy Al-Hamra'."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7f0541dd7e626c6bcd305b4989b89714">The Governor replied, "I have heard everything but I know that they are our own. They take you as their protector and caretaker. In the face of these immediate dangers, they want their Sultan, their protector and caretaker to lead them to face the challenges. Had they considered you alien, they wouldn't have gathered at the gates the way they have. They are agitated but a few words from you could pacify them. In fact, those few words can divert their energies into in a different direction. I'm sure that if they come to know about the plight of their frontier brothers and if you announce in front of them that the Christians would be punished for this crime, then I'm sure every person would be willing to die under your banner. Or else...?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4b28784b91fcead1a07566b78cc11953">Seeing the Governor hesitant, Abu Abdullah enquired, "Or else what?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cd0bc66c25266f35d343780bc1890720">The Governor replied, "Or else you know that they won't be wrong in associating their future with Al-Zeghel."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="822232098cef8ad4dbbc8fbdc2478030">Abu Abdullah replied, "They have already associated their future with Al-Zeghel."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="810208bc4be978da4b6105620ac8671e">"But the Christians' behavior at the border has made it clear what they have in store for the Muslims. After this, it is important that we become one. If you immediately order the army to crush the perpetrators of the borders, you will see that for every soldier, we will gain ten volunteers from the people of Granada. This would be an expiation of our past faults and I'm sure your uncle would also forget about the past grievances." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="60a176d039de305e96853ec60f3d58a6">Seeing Abu Abdullah impressed, the minister said, "Labeling any decision of the Great Sultan as an error is a crime and you are a responsible officer of the army."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="dd881b5627af790ce4cb3ff7a8d80a06">"If I had no sense of responsibility, then maybe, I would not have uttered these words."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9708b73fc8c9966f7c3d52e212e2dfe4">Abu Abdullah said, "We cannot take any decision at the moment. You go and rest and we will see about this tomorrow."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cf7a39f4cbbe50ca37491e8c741163b0">The Governor said, "Great Sultan! I want to return to the border immediately. Several of our settlements must have been ravaged by now. If you can't take a decision until tomorrow, then at least give me five hundred horsemen of the army. I'm sure I would be able to raise atleast two thousand volunteers before dawn. The people only want to know that you will no longer bear the aggression of the Christians."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e07c8674cbc1a555207f0881382e0e1d">The minister said, "We have an agreement of friendship with Ferdinand."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b859784cf67038fe6882863259531b6a">"If this were not the case, I would have raised an army of volunteers without the Great Sultan's permission and gone to the border."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="192146f9472366efd6f693107ec1f554">The minister said, "We will send an emissary first thing in the morning to Ferdinand and lodge a protest. I'm sure this attack by the Christians on our borders was without his permission and knowledge."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d471e845dc067a0682cad3ab82c580c9">The Governor replied, "A goat's protest cannot change a wolf's nature."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="11509d9bbe6e87c710e630c0450875a9">Abu Abdullah replied annoyingly, "You can leave. We will call you if we need your advices. Now we need to take some rest."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b9496a12b1e8fba797223da6f290082b">"So should I take it from the Great Sultan that we should leave these helpless people on their own?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f1c97a2d0bc411855bb5624e77b1e08d">Abu Abdullah said in culmination, "So far we have not given any orders to you. Wait until morning. You are our guest till tomorrow." Abu Abdullah clapped his hand. The warden of Al-Hamra entered the chamber. Abu Abdullah said, "Take him to the guest house."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="537a8e4fd3ceaf5614939fa40c8559f6">The Governor of the border areas looked at theminister and the Sultan in a concerned and perturbed manner and then leftwithout saying anything.     <br/></p></pre>
</div>
</body>
</html>
