<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 15: Tareef Bin Malik</title>
  </head>
  <body><div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="e7fcf8e49e39af3c66af246fdcf535df">             </p>
                          <p data-p-id="0a6c9c45e55ff86f8ef2dc231c5951d4">             </p>
                          <p data-p-id="7acce3193127d4b71a6c2b140c22dc95">(1)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f253e56472977c19bc0f779bf30164b1">When Abu Abdullah got to know that his uncle had left Andercus for Africa he sent a message of congratulations to Ferdinand in Malaga and ordered for a celebration in Granada.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="70c4741550c6e8faa3826da3a316dd83">During the night Al-Hamra's pillars and walls shone in the light of lanterns. A feast was arranged by Abu Abdullah in a spacious chamber of Al-Hamra for the loyal chiefs and members of the sultanate. Dance and music began after food. Rounds of wine followed and when this party was at its climax, Abu Abdullah, intoxicated in wine got up and said, "Some of you used to say that I am unfortunate. Noone call me unfortunate from today. I am the King of Granada. Ferdinand's promises are true. All the territories of Granada will be returned to me. Why are you quiet? Laugh, sing and drink wine till your heart's content. I will make a river of wine for you in Al-Hamra. All of the grapes of Alpujarra would be used to make wine. We had also ordered the people of the city to celebrate but we have heard that some miscreants have put-off the lights in the streets and markets. This is the work of those who have come from out of Granada and are propagating that the Christians have been extremely cruel to them. I say that this is a lie. Next time such people will not be given permission to enter into the city. Any slogan against Ferdinand the Great will not be tolerated. He is our benefactor. Whatever you see today in Al-Hamra is because of him."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c3cf9ff610379c2305a922002b67ab0b">But the city's condition was quite contrary to Al-Hamra. The lights of the streets and lanes that were lit in the evening by official notification were extinguished forcibly by those protesting against Abu Abdullah. The entire night protestors gathered in streets, lanes and intersections and raised slogans against the traitors of the nation. Abu Abdullah's supporters in the city who had illuminated their homes had their houses pelted with bricks. An influential group of clergymen was with the protestors and the young students did not hesitate to drag out and beat-up those namesake clergymen who congregated to supplicate in their mosques for Abu Abdullah's long life. Like the men, a group of female protestors too rallied around the city the whole night and apart from the women of Granada, female refugees also participated in this rally, whose tears had conveyed the tales of atrocities of the Christians in Malaga and Beegha to the people of Granada.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5eb4500caf512108535887db81db2621">Abu Abdullah celebrated for three days. For three days the walls of Al-Hamra acted as a separator between the laughter of the pleasure-seeking officials of the government and the sighs of the people of Granada. For three days, rounds of Aragonian wine over-flowed in cups as tears of blood flowed from the eyes of the people of Granada and on the fourth day Abu Abdullah was reading this letter from Ferdinand:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b838dddd4f2ba0d0cf36a0b7e94b1f4f">"We have come to know that our people in Granada are not happy with you and the rebels are gathering in the city.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="dbcbe666449c105adde56e7263006a57">To remove any possibility of a future war between Muslims and Christians, we believe it is vital that you handover Granada to us. The only reply to this letter that we would like to hear from you is that the gates of Granada will not be closed for our army. In any other scenario we would be compelled to use force. We will decide your future when we get to Granada. If you expect a generous treatment from us, then, unconditional compliance is a must."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="caf92ca77af4975c7eb234c819f64d6a">Like Abu Abdullah, the effect of intoxication also vanished from the members of the sultanate. They glared at each other with eyes wide open. Cloud of hopelessness was settling allover Al-Hamra.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="053ef5521aa9114bcdd95b5a3d7da7b4">Abu Abdullah looked at Ferdinand's emissary and said in a feeble voice, "Emperor Ferdinand will have a reply from us within a couple of days."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d93807dc9b6ed7933b660898965a5859">Abu Abdullah's new minister was Tareef Bin Malik, who was the biggest chief of the tribal Berbers. He stood up and replied, "Ferdinand certainly has some misunderstanding about us and we are sure this misunderstanding will be removed. If you deem appropriate, I am ready to go to him."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="e62f15c91eee92c89472044156d36988">Another chief stood up and said, "Ferdinand has left only two options for us. The first is that we comply with his commands and get ready to welcome these savages into our homes whose main priority is to dishonor our sisters and daughters. The second is that we prepare for a dignified death."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3481f1a724cca007fce61a92c181a1fb">Yet another chief got up and said, "War is synonymous to death for us."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="102715e0d56c52fce5ba94a3a173c63e">Suddenly, Abu Abdullah had a thought and said with a bit of optimism, "Tareef! Go to Abu Dawood. He is the only person who can show us the correct path at this time. He will certainly be able to remove any misunderstanding Ferdinand has about us. Ferdinand has made him the ruler of Loja. Go to him immediately."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cb11fe8a93067087ac53cc0359607cf4">After a while, Tareef was heading towards Loja.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e4b00b4a65a415cf9ebaa9f83719c071">(2)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b6148ff2a87893921e33760c9e0ef514">Abu Dawood recognized Tareef Bin Malik as soon as he saw him but contrary to Tareef's expectation of a warm welcome, Abu Dawood did not even stand up from his chair for a handshake. He merely gestured towards an empty chair that was in front of him.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b2537c664ec0e02cca2fefdd6c782761">Tareef sat on the chair and said reluctantly, "Abu Abdullah has sent me to you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="36d8b1bf9a372b286be2e3228e626460">Abu Dawood replied, "I know that you have come to me for advice."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="520ae3f6ab8f459c7db85030694dbaed">"So...so you know that Ferdinand has broken his promise with us."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f73f249373752a2a3982bff7aa4a3c2c">Abu Dawood replied, "In the capacity of a Governor I am not willing to hear anything against my King and I cannot even advise Abu Abdullah not to comply with the orders of his Emperor."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0639d75f60ccffe60935d3b752f114ec">"But I came with the understanding that you are a Muslim. You are a well-wisher of Granada and in the capacity of the Governor of Loja you too are a member of the Government of Granada. This is our city. I have come here to ask what we should do."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3cc4119834fcff6d3c40f04bbe843111">Abu Dawood replied, "The weak always has to comply unconditionally in front of the powerful. My advice to Abu Abdullah is that he should leave himself at the mercy of Ferdinand."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ec1a46f6eadc5431b99419f666e8a4fa">"But you had told Abu Abdullah several times in front of me that Ferdinand would never deceive us. He is our well-wisher. He has no greed to expand his kingdom. He would handover the entire Sultanate of Granada to Abu Abdullah after defeating Al-Zeghel. What became of those promises? Regretfully, your enthusiasm to become the Governor of Loja has made you forget that you are an individual of the Muslim community and if Christian forces enter Granada then our aftermath would be even worse that the people of Malaga."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="859370ddf7e308721a4afb5b957d44bb">Abu Dawood replied with the same indifference, "I had performed the duty of being an emissary between Abu Abdullah and Ferdinand."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a77000b69bc4e3d2afe75e17b22675bf">"No. You had tried to convince Abu Abdullah to have confidence in Ferdinand's false promises."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6617f84cc666dfac6fc8090d10952762">Abu Dawood replied, "Like Abu Abdullah can't I too make an error? At that moment, were you all not my supporters? If you want to be saved from destruction, then wouldn't it be better that someone more far-sighted than Abu Abdullah take the reins of the people of Granada? The only way to save yourselves from the revenge of the Christians is that a leader from among you should guarantee complete loyalty to them on behalf of the people of Granada."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="93792a01c206baef826fa2f2e0c19e2b">Tareef said, "If the people of Granada request you for their leadership, would you be willing to take-up this service?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8712c752d3999907eebb94279b06d444">"When I feel that I can be of service to them, then I will come even without being called."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f4d2b13ef436edda36404a2f4fc59a36">"But I have heard that under your shadow, even the Muslims in Loja consider themselves closer to death than to life."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="89536c8ba24d3a5d35369e0f7cbe32d5">"The reason for this is that they still have not accepted me as their leader wholeheartedly and that is why I cannot talk to Ferdinand on their behalf with full confidence."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="ccef714331e0a9e5fa4e8acc74c0efe2">Tareef got up and said, "So this means that unless the people of all the cities of Granada do not take a petty spy of Ferdinand as their leader, till such time, they cannot be saved."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c3c42ad1e80582be065182e08a696305">Contrary to Tareef's expectation, Abu Dawood replied calmly, "At these times emotional talks are of no avail. So I am Ferdinand's spy but you too have not been negligent in serving him. Go ahead and ask yourself. Don't you feel that the people of Granada would have been better off if you were in Abu Abdullah's place?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bb87a242e9b73c8a055f3964c9a2adbe">"No. I cannot betray Abu Abdullah."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="333b7d5a68415e90afe6c71fba97d67e">"Very well! So be it but the reason for this is not that you consider Abu Abdullah to be the best leader of Granada but the main reason is that to become Prime Minister you need to make such a person to be the Sultan. If you had the contentment of reaching to this position when leaders like Abul Hassan and Al-Zeghel were present, then you would have never betrayed them and as proof of my claim it is enough for me to say that the only reason you had a person like Moosa murdered is that in his presence it would have been impossible for you to get even an ordinary position. Otherwise, who does not know that he could have become a great leader of Granada. My friend, we both have our interests in front of us. To fulfill your interests, you became a stooge for Abu Abdullah and to fulfill my interests I became a stooge for Ferdinand and even now you are not afraid for the destruction of the people of Granada. Your main fear is that if Abu Abdullah is overthrown then even your ministership would be snatched away."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="39b6e0e6f9bb1e7c90250ad8e415fd50">Tareef grinned sheepishly and said, "You are Satan."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c28d2a7fdad889aa879cc3f24e3f160c">For the first time a smile curved on Abu Dawood's face. "A small Satan is acknowledging the greatness of a big Satan" And then he became serious and said, "Tareef, you don't not have to worry. Your objective is the ministership of Granada but for this if you think it is important for Abu Abdullah to be the King, then, you're mistaken. So far I don't know who Ferdinand has selected for the seat of Granada but when the time comes I will tell him that for the post of minister, there is no person more suited than you. Instead of taking support of a sinking ship, why don't you take the support of that mariner on whose signals the ships sink and swim? You know that now if anyone wants to be the King or Minister of Granada it is important to have the approval of Ferdinand. I can't understand the person who does not regret Moosa's murder but would be upset on handing over an idiot like Abu Abdullah to Ferdinand?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d28d1b5a7cbe2cfb124c255d71e72b2c">Tareef replied, "When I was a traitor, I didn't realize that the Christians were deceivers and vicious to such a degree. Now if you believe that I can ignore the treatment they have rendered to my people in Malaga, then it is wrong."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c034759b84d285c64073047f40552164">"You are getting emotional again. If Al-Zaghairi had laid down his arms in Malaga immediately then certainly the Christians would not have rendered that treatment."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0cdbf7f5339432e79c438bf9f4a8112d">Tareef said, "Fine. I will leave now."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ec1428084c37a821b5959adf12531505">Abu Dawood stood up and while extending his hand for a handshake said, "Goodbye!" But suddenly, a thought crossed Tareef's mind and his hand stopped from extending. He said, "No. From today maybe our paths are different."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a27b5c64b04b7d48a86a9424d90786fa">Abu Dawood said while calmly settling down in his chair, "As you wish. But I know you will finally meet up with me after taking a long turn. If you don't want to deceive yourself, then it would be better for you if you went to Ferdinand instead of Abu Abdullah.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="57aeb276ffec4616e3aa1667a9539c17">Tareef stopped as he reached the door, turned around and looked at Abu Dawood for a second and exited.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d3c53aaa116cecdb27b8ba4af8396b1e">Abu Dawood clapped his hands after pondering for a while. A servant entered the room and waited for his orders with his head bowed down. Abu Dawood said, "Go to the police chief and tell him that I need four active, wise and brave men immediately."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="df250e657d5d65ba3cc178048a50f8d1">The servant left and Abu Dawood picked up a pen and got busy in writing. After a while four Christians who appeared to be army officers from their attire entered the room. Abu Dawood turned his attention to them after revising his writing. "The emissary of Granada is staying at our guest house and currently he must be preparing to leave. Follow him until you know for sure whether he's heading towards Granada or towards Malaga. If he heads towards Malaga, then know that he's our Emperor's friend. In this case only one of you would have go to Malaga to give my letter to the Great Emperor and if he heads towards Granada then his existence is dangerous for us. In this situation it would be your duty to stop him from going to Granada even at the expense of your lives. He has only five men with him. Take two or three good archers along with you. I want his companions to be aware of your presence only when an arrow is pierced into his chest. Do not attack his comrades unless there is a compulsion to do so. After that, one of you should go to Malaga and present my letter to the Emperor and narrate rest of the events verbally. Now go. Even if Tareef has left he must not have gone far."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="38560d3d403d928e8b6a1e4e8f9e93e1">(3)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0ef4704afbb5bb8d8761c5025c849746">After leaving Loja, Tareef did not talk to anyone of his companions for several kilometers. During the night he stayed at a small inn of a settlement along the way. The owner of the inn was a Moroccan Muslim. As soon as he got off the horse, Tareef said, "Our horses need food and rest more than us. We will leave in the wee hours of the night."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e8d6da8884a252ff5b73bc63bd3fa3b7">The owner of the inn said, "You look like a respectable man. Two Christian officers are staying in the best room of the inn. If you do not have any objection I can empty a room of my house for you. Your servants will find a place at the inn."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="71dd5dc21d98db2213fde1e5705ea0d5">Tareef said, "I only need to sleep."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="baa1446146101b8b2d43fa39c812b967">The owner of the inn said, "I'm afraid you won't be able to sleep restfully at the inn. Those soldiers will return shortly after drinking wine at a Christian's house in the settlement and for the whole night neither will they sleep nor will they let anyone else sleep. There is only a wall between my house and this inn. Their noise would be heard there too but they won't break down your door at night when they are drunk."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c11cde4f3a7a9c18ff123ea46624fd34">Tareef said, "Very well, I'm your guest."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9e5c65b82a577b3ed96086dd49b62266">After having food, Tareef intended to lie in bed but he heard some noise coming from the direction of the inn.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3fe3724b3cd1dffb34bb091976c72468">After listening carefully, he heard screams of a woman. He called out to the owner of the inn. The owner of the inn came into his room from the next room and without waiting for Tareef's question said, "Looks like they have caught another prey today."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3c6f36ceb4d2d866803f0b33a2ec2cd7">"You mean they kidnap people's girls from the town?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="25f277e8277136eb0e130045dea88b04">The owner of the inn said, "A victorious nation compels its slaves to comply to such rights."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f67feb2f2696d5cd306ef417c271c894">"And the people do not retaliate?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8ebe1c3cbbc9441f98ca74fa5f69bf61">"The population of Muslims is very little in this town and to save their own house people are willing to silently watch houses of others being burned."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a868af95f5069cc120bfea8d01751b2b">"Don't they have any self-esteem left?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0a69f95d80b6651e26d82eab1536c9e0">"It seems that you have come from a different land. Self-esteem is meaningless for a nation whose Sultan is a coward and its nobles are traitors."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="01da9c660d9a984593beffb82da57e37">Raising his sword, Tareef said, "My friend! For a long time, I had lost my way. Today you have shown me the way."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="47c0c205038678237a00c3ace044cf14">Tareef ran out of the house and entered the inn. The screams of the woman were coming from the upper floors. Tareef's companions were standing in the veranda in bewilderment.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0d4d01ea30818d867810a94a8618de59">"You cowards! What are you thinking?!" Saying this Tareef ran up the stairs. The door of the room was at the end of the corridor but there was a window from where light was emanating.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b6c8dd6f066c3d17f1477f0e61ea6e4c">"Have mercy on me...leave me...let me go."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="723eee36cccd6427c86e4686e94fbde9">Tareef peeped through the window and couldn't bear the heart-breaking scene. With all his strength he pushed and broke the door. Intoxicated in wine, the soldiers left the woman and turned their attention towards him but within a blink of an eye Tareef's sword had decapitated one soldier's head and had gone through the other's belly. For a moment the shocked girl lay motionless on the floor. Then she looked at her naked body and left the room screaming. Simultaneously, Tareef's companions were coming up the stairs with their swords. At their sight the girl gave a deafening scream and jumped from the gallery. Tareef ran down the stairs. The owner of the inn was standing downstairs. Tareef remove his robe and placed it on the girl's naked body. The owner of the inn bent down and placing his hands on her pulse said, "She has been liberated from the chains of life."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1468bafb591ce10d7f27f7155b2b1a99">Tareef said to his companions, "Put the reins on the horses. We are going to leave immediately." Then he turned his attention towards the owner of the inn said, "If anyone asks who killed these thugs, tell them that the persecution of a girl of his nation has made the treacherous minister of Granada into a Muslim once again."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="33fd662c398a9bb88582b8ff2e483330">Later when these people were coming out, eight horsemen came and halted in front of the inn. One of them moved his horse forward, looked at Tareef carefully and said, "Where are you going at this time?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="46e33855737f0868ac021bc5b9780dc4">Tareef replied in a bitter tone, "Who are you?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e81a3fe530c0a398a0e330efed87a439">"We are soldiers. We thought of staying at this inn for the night but it seems that even you did not find a place here."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0753274861568608d211e71f0ac89606">"There is a lot of place. In fact, we have just emptied a room."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cbf604e0c0d7c691a9401c9f2db3414a">Saying this Tareef prompted his horse forward. After covering a distance, one of Tareef's companions who was relatively close to Tareef galloped his horse close to Tareef's and said, "After what happened, do you think it would be appropriate to go to Malaga?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1e0bebfe18eb6b78465d05f7851d2540">"Who asked you to go to Malaga?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1140a07a4f169d3b113c7ede04a80079">"You said that we might have to go to Malaga?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9d4fc8769588e1a8d6bc931f42ed2cfe">"No. We are going to Granada."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6e88c9f4d5d1e7a70e3230a19cc34c07">After a while, Tareef said to his companion, "Hassan! You must have mused several times that I am the biggest traitor of Granada."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0a7a102bda817d6751304001c7a26a27">Appearing worried Hassan said, "You are my master."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0989aaba643cae06823d4b6815b28ffc">"No Hassan, I know. Your compulsions do not permit you to say how you really feel. You had been compelled to support me even in the worst of conditions, but say for instance that I choose the correct path today, then, what difference would it make to you?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0efea8b942c5bbddacfe4d8b76c8cd21">Hassan replied reluctantly, "My master! There is a huge difference in walking with a burdened conscience and a burden-free conscience."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3ec082da5bd73cd26b054cf89b4cb369">Tareef said, "Hassan! The Christians are our worst enemies."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1230a396dd1c09fc1d2cbaee700ea168">"My Master! If you don't take it as an affront, then I would say that we have been our own enemy. If you accept someone as your killer, then you cannot demand that he should not kill you in a certain way and our situation is such that we have tied our hands and legs and stood in front of the enemy and we have also given our dagger in his hand. Now it is his choice if he slaughters us gradually or just slits our jugular vein quickly."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c13f1164f3b65ce0db210bcede195f1d">Tareef replied enthusiastically, "No, our daggers are still in our hands. We will fight. If not a life of dignity, then the path for a death of dignity has not been closed for us."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0f932df936937d73e1b5fbbd10e9479f">"May God give you courage. But I fear that Abu Abdullah will not support you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0af878b16a5f5f9a9e7b6f4895e51748">"He is compelled to support us."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2b5aa557760b77322007a4294b0c0ac0">After a while, Hassan got startled and said, "Somebody is following us."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d5080a9689592e863643f6f526014b62">On Tareef's cue his companions stopped their horses. The sound of galloping horses could be heard behind.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b6ce8d94605c72eb8c2dfa5812512064">Hassan said, "They must be the same soldiers that we met at the entrance of the inn." To save his life, the owner of the inn must have told them who the killer of the two officers of the Christian army was and you too did not hide your secret. They must be following us in pursuit."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3b67767669018bde2b78f1856d70332e">Tareef said, "They have been following us for long. We saw them as we left Loja. I have seen them two or three times along the way. All of you move away and stand behind the trees."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="aad55f7b0a22922f2e174994e309315e">With Tareef leading, his companions left the path and stood behind the dense trees.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="854c1cfa5b6b30c2c5c194dd683c8a23">The horse riders passed by and Tareef and his companions came out of from behind the trees and mounted their horses.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fad3d57b4bef0f4ad55dff54679164a3">(4)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c87bcd6baa0c9004cf9da8eea662231a">In the wee hours of the night, these people left the main road and were passing through a sandy track in the murky light of the moon.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9deb3c93ecb7b4ab66f75ad7a1212ddd">Tareef sat on his horse with his head bowed. His tension increased as he approached the destination. He had passed the stage in which a person thinks as to what he should do. His feet were shaky when he left Loja after meeting Abu Dawood. He would sometimes think that he would go to Granada and tell Abu Abdullah, "We have deceived ourselves. Now war was the only way out. The flood whose dams we had broken ourselves was now heading towards our homes. When Ferdinand's troops would enter Granada, neither will you remain a King nor I a minister. He might not even give us the privilege of living like a normal human being but are we capable of fighting the enemy? An enemy for whom we have opened the gates of our strongest forts. He is aware all our weaknesses. Now, we can't even threaten him."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="39a32045f9cc39edc5e5ced06eaaddaf">Then he would think, "Could Ferdinand prove to be so treacherous? What if I go to him and tell him that we have been ashamed in front of our people because of you. We trusted you and fought with Abul Hassan and Al-Zeghel for you. We were confident that we could live a life of peace under your shade. For the sake of peace in Andalus, we gave most of the area of our Sultanate to you and now you want to take Granada away from us too? You are the Emperor of Andalus. This sort of default does not suit your stature. What will the world say? What will the historians say? Can you deny that had we not supported you there was no power in Andalus that could have stopped the floods of Abul Hassan's victories? If anyone raised a voice against you, we did not hesitate in strangling him. If anyone raised his head against you, we slaughtered him and threw him at your feet. Is this the reward of our services that the gates of Granada be opened for those wolves who have ripped the threads of humanity apart in Malaga after all? What is our crime? No! No! There is no benefit of such talk. Ferdinand doesn't need us now. Abul Hassan and Al-Zeghel are no threat to him now. For him, now that nation has become harmless whose flags of success fluttered for centuries in the fields of Andalus. Ferdinand took the shade of rocks in the rain of arrows. Now the bows of those who fought against him are broken and now he has no use for those rocks. Abu Abdullah, I and all my companions were those rocks who Ferdinand used to make his bunkers that won him the war. Now he feels that we are useless to him." Then again he thought, "But like us, even Abu Dawood was a similar rock in his bunker and he has made him the Governor of Loja." Tareef answered the question himself. "No, he still considers him useful. Ferdinand wants to put his defeated enemy to death and even in the capacity of a rock, Abu Dawood can be useful in sharpening his sword. Ferdinand wants to spill every drop of blood of life from the veins of his enemy and Abu Dawood can tell him precisely which vein to cut. Maybe a day would arrive when Ferdinand might realize that like us he does not even need Abu Dawood, but for now, he needs him. Abu Dawood has assured me that I can make Ferdinand happy by betraying Abu Abdullah but this would be treachery. Could it not be possible that the decision Ferdinand has taken against Abu Abdullah is because of Abu Dawood's advice? And if Abu Dawood can betray Abu Abdullah, can't he then betray me as well? I won't go to Malaga. I will go to Granada but what can I do after getting to Granada? Moosa is in my custody. I am willing to face the consequences after releasing him. I will fall at his feet and say, "Moosa! The nation needs you but now what can even Moosa do?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f9692cb01a9c1acaee1e28646f78370c">When this mental conflict would become unbearable for Tareef, he would turn his attention towards his companions and strike a conversation with them. Before going to the inn of the settlement he did not know where his destination was. He would take a step towards Granada and the next towards Malaga, but when he left the inn he had just one destination. The incident of the tragic death of an innocent girl was the final jolt to awaken his drowsy conscience. His shaky feet had stabilized. The shrilling screams of a helpless girl of the nation had placed the Prime Minister in the ranks of those people who were compelled to fight without the consequence of a win or loss. Tareef hand just one option.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ef57ede3aceec6b11a65cce08e691056">When the morning was about to break he halted his horse by a stream and said to his companions, "It's time for prayer."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b27e27358db55b69d7d5f4a6bfca25a8">After performing ablution from the stream, Tareef and his companions stood facing the <i>Qibla</i> and when Tareef raised his hands for supplication after prayers, then, instead of words, tears flowed out from his eyes. Tareef hid his face his hands. After much difficulty he uttered these words from his mouth:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b9dda4a6c9c7c9167bfa24b725eef5d1">"My Lord! We have strayed far away from the life of dignity. Now maybe our tears won't be able to wash away the darkness of our sins. We rebelled against Your commands and rejected Your mercy and now when we are facing nothing but humiliation and indignity in front of us we are asking You for a respectable death. No! The word "respect" does not suit people like us. We don't even deserve to imagine a respectful death. We merely want to be relieved from the torment of our conscience. Every moment of life is far bitter than death. Now our burden has become too much for your earth to bear."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="3b80287b0e510c0b8eb909a7c99d76a5">This supplication that began with tears ended with tears as well. Tareef and his companions mounted their horses once again.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6f4095a4696fba84f107c6913bfed762">After crossing the stream and passing through dense trees, the minaret of Granada's mosque and the dome of Al-Hamra came in Tareef's sight. Pointing towards the horizon he said, "Look! Granada! Our Granada! Hassan! This is our last fort in Andalus. We will protect it. We should not be hopeless from the Mercy of God. If a hundred thousand youth out of a million in Granada vow to live, then who can erase them. Haven't a handful of frontier falcons not taught a lesson to Ferdinand's cowardly army? Didn't a thousand of Tariq's warriors shake the pillar's of Rodrick's supremacy? When we were in our thousands we defeated the largest of armies and today our numbers are in hundreds of thousands. Will we submit to the humiliation of Ferdinand's slavery forever? Don't we possess those swords that our ancestors..."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c69f71f2bc7af34d2c744c959c47d799">Tareef couldn't complete his phrase. An arrow swooshed from the trees and got pierced into Tareef's ribs. With a sound of "uff" Tareef ducked to a side but instantly another arrow hit his back. Tareef's companions turned their reins around but in the meanwhile a few more arrows came and another one of Tareef's companions got injured and right after that the sound of galloping horses could be heard from behind the trees.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8382ddbfa97e6fb7a8d3a29371a9c417">Tareef proclaimed loudly, "Hassan! Don't go in their pursuit. I have a lot of work to get done."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="35795a5d65675eaa2f195e2ff579082a">Tareef prompted his horse forward and his companions, who were biting their lips in rage, followed him. After going a little further, Hassan brought his horse close to Tareef and said, "Please stop the horse. Let me take out this arrow."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="de2a9a09eea63918c9092977b45e48c2">"No. These moments of mine are very valuable. Now, don't waste time."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="879ced1f815ac866fbf7ea26beb5c84a">"You can't go very far in this condition. Atleast let me have a look at your wounds." Saying this Hassan extended one hand and got a hold of the reins of Tareef's horse and pulled the reins of his horse with the other.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="52d74e9b5de81b5f0f500a7bfdb0878a">While dismounting his horse Tareef said, "You are very stubborn, Hassan!" He stood with his chest against the horse and holding the reins with both his hands said, "Be quick."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b890834a3a8c667bb615996bf138427e">Hassan quickly removed his turban and said to one of his companions, "Tear this in two."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d38c6e3d10daf2f147b20c7114ecfbcf">Two men dismounted their horses and tried to lend support to Tareef but he lashed out saying, "I am fine. Hassan, be quick."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b8ee3b8fd7a6d6ec14848587debeaa6a">Hassan pulled and removed an arrow at once and threw it but Tareef fell unconscious as he tried to remove the second one. After tying both the wounds, Tareef's companions lay him on the ground. After a while, Tareef gained consciousness, opened his eyes and after drinking a few drops of water tried to get up but Hassan said, "It would not be advisable to travel on the horse in this condition. Wouldn't it be better that we leave you in the nearby settlement and get a surgeon from Granada?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="53c66f2ab6091ed02f5fd190dbbc389c">Tareef got up and said decisively, "I am living merely to perform my last duty."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="82866115be0761f71b8a5216311fadad">Tareef mounted his horse but after about half a mile Hassan realized that it had become difficult for him to sit on the saddle of the horse properly. He would bend to one side at times or to the other. His grip on the reins of the horse was loosening. Hassan took his horse closer and he put his hand around Tareef's back and pulled him onto his horse.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ab1f070770d9a265abca5c02b22ea970">While groaning Tareef said, "Take me to Moosa."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4e1d8cddfa0d7c2d9f336c22517f104f">(5)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3365d258ad022063579b0f525bbb7408">After passing through lush green gardens Hassan halted his horse at an iron gate of the four walls of an old house. A black slave peeped out of the iron bars of the gate. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="5ef3519f5e477a52334153984de2c39c">Hassan said, "Open the gate. Be quick."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5dd7d3501ba5bac97e0932548a52095d">The black slave opened the gate as soon as he recognized Hassan and his companions. Hassan entered into a wide field as soon as he passed the gatehouse. In the meantime, a few slaves and servants gathered and on Hassan's cue removed Tareef from the horse and took him into a room. Tareef was unconscious. Hassan said to the servants, "Call Yaqoob."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="a81ea5838ebfbecd45a752678e290eb7">A negro ran out and returned promptly and said, "He is coming."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e908eb56de6dbd6ce321b83f39412a6c">A middle-aged yet well-built man entered the room. Seeing Tareef unconscious on the bed he looked at Hassan with querying glances.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c2c65037c7ade9402d4c09895df96bf7">Hassan said, "Yaqoob, it is the master's order to release Moosa from captivity immediately and present him here."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c4440565b26ccdaa2386866bf514d4c1">In a state of bewilderment and concern, Yaqoob first looked at Hassan and then at his companions. His silent glances were protesting against the unprecedented order.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="691cfdcc09796fdb90e93e43876e9231">Hassan said, "Yaqoob! Don't waste time. Be quick."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e209e37ac34205f60bc791fe84ee5aff">With a bit of audacity, Yaqoob said, "But master is unconscious and until he does not order himself..."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6fa012254c1d8545d23a4238d806318b">Hassan thundered back at him, "I order you on master's behalf. Be quick."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="30f00cade8d5abdc84b2485424e5f49d">"But he won't leave me alive."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d5cbe794ccaacaa752ca5ef5d5ffff6f">"Lions don't raise their hands on foxes. Let's go. I will come with you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a30e3c9a75aee4c9846bb0b0fc028e1a">Moments later, after passing through a narrow veranda, Hassan, Yaqoob and a slave stopped at an iron gate of a cell that was on the other side of the house. The Berber unlocked the door of the cell. On one side of a cell was a narrow stone ladder that led downstairs. After coming down about twenty steps these people stopped in front of an iron-bar gate. Yaqoob opened the door. It was pitch dark inside. When Yaqoob turned an iron latch near the wall next to the door, a small window opened up near the ceiling of the opposite wall and foggy light entered the room. This room was empty and a man stood behind the right side of another cell's narrow door's iron bars and looked towards those who had created a commotion to his solitude. This was Moosa Bin Abi Ghassan. Even a withered face of this awesome and formidable personality was enough to shake the hearts of onlookers. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="3a6c0989fb17d3f11a20c054f7320655">Hassan took a step forward and said, "We have come to take you out of captivity on the orders of Tareef Bin Malik."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="602e8ecbff0388e669d53d958915ba70">Moosa kept looking at Hassan silently. Hassan repeated, "He is injured and his last wish is that you give him a chance to fall at your feet. We have brought him here in a state of unconsciousness. We know that you won't forgive him but he has repented and maybe after a while his matter would be in front of his Lord. All of us are your criminals and if you want to punish us then you won't face any resistance from our side."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a6ea7552f1da41f59640717369b8a32d">On Hassan's signal, Yaqoob opened the door fearfully. Moosa came out of the cell and stood silently for a moment and then spoke, "I fail to understand how this punishment descended upon Tareef when he was willing to commit every sin for Abu Abdullah."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="17c2bd7a10061d34c107f100b21509e4">Hassan replied, "Tareef has been wounded by Ferdinand's men. You might consider him forgivable once you're aware of all the events but at the moment the flame of his life is flickering. He is waiting for you. He wants to say something to you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="77db5fbe8416db793d69c7123706e390">Moosa said, "Let's go."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9e19759ee26e1600b92e668d3f345a40">(6)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="08d081c0e6e2b9fd21d804a5611d1b31">Tareef groaned in pain and said, "Quick, take me to Moosa." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="36aa8a77de925e47d3eb115bf869cf2d">One of his companions said, "Hassan has gone to fetch Moosa. They must be coming here shortly."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3342fffc0a8364b2fe9dc8644c9584e9">Tareef opened his eyes, looked around and while sitting up on the bed said, "I don't want to see him in this condition. Take me in front of his cell. I'm not worthy enough that he come to me. Be quick."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e8a42a6e80dc3ccf1a6006a3e3e2667c">Tareef hung his feet down from the bed. Two men assisted him. When they took him out the door, a negro slave said, "They are coming."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1f76cfcecdcd31bdefc40dfd21667173">Tareef said, "Leave me. I don't need support." The servants complied to his orders against their wishes. Tareef took a few steps. He could see Moosa on the other side of the veranda. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="31e8734262751a7da496be6032cc35e3">He began to blackout. He stumbled forward and stood embracing a pillar of the veranda. Moosa came and stopped close to him and stared at him in bewilderment. With shivering lips Tareef said in a voice drenched in pain, "Moosa! Your criminal is knocking at the gates of death but before that...before that..."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f7ea73876d37c29d8f431f08c4c8eca8">Tareef left the support of the pillar, took a few steps forward and involuntarily fell at Moosa's feet. For a second, Moosa stood numb without any motion. Then he tried to move back but his feet were clutched in Tareef's arms. Even in a state of unconsciousness this grip was quite strong. Suddenly Moosa realized that his feet were becoming wet. Tareef was spending away his saved tears at his feet. No, these were not tears. Moosa was heart-broken. He had forgotten all the ills of the past. He bent down and picked Tareef up. Instead of tears, a stream of blood was flowing out of his mouth. Moosa picked him up and took him inside. He placed him on the bed and tried to revive him but the fatigued traveler had breathed his last after arriving to his final destination.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="40150d42949f004dd9916df5bdbe129c">Moosa supplicated, "Surely we belong to  and to Him shall we return" and despite trying hard to hold back tears, they flowed over. These tears fell on Tareef's face. Moosa moved his head from his lap onto the pillow and said in a husky voice, "Tareef! You were one of us."</p></pre>
</div>
</body>
</html>
