<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 19: Angela and Rabia's Father</title>
  </head>
  <body><div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="e7fcf8e49e39af3c66af246fdcf535df">             </p>
                          <p data-p-id="7acce3193127d4b71a6c2b140c22dc95">(1)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6fd2d9ed06879a52b1d5af5cc744998d">In the month of April, 1491, Ferdinand attacked Granada with all his military might. Like the King and Queen, all the knights of Andalus too had come after taking the oath that they would not return without conquering Granada. To keep the Shaheens of the valley and the <i>mujahideens</i> of Alpujarras engaged, he had already dispatched an army of horsemen. The command of the army of Granada was in Moosa's hand. Although there was a huge group of hypocrites and traitors working against them, however, majority of the public was ready to give up their lives on Moosa's cue.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="86f3e4b5c0202f48ab9267a0dbcbb8b4">Ferdinand had learned from his past failures. Despite the superiority of his might, instead of directly attacking the city, he encamped at a distance and started assaulting the settlements in and around the vicinity. He had already surrounded Granada from three sides but instead of attacking the city directly, his army was busy in burning the gardens and destroying the crops out of the city. Ferdinand was certain that after a long siege the people of Granada would be compelled to lay down their arms after being exhausted by starvation. Therefore, after burning the fields of the farmers outside, he was forcing them to take refuge in Granada. Within two months, he had desolated a lush green and fertile area of several miles around the three sides of Granada. The only route open to Granada for supplies and reinforcements was from Mount Basharat. Limited supplies of grain, fruits and vegetables were coming into Granada from the fertile valley of Sierra Nevada but this wasn't enough for the thousands of people of Granada. The condition of the people of Granada was deteriorating day-by-day. As for Moosa, it was not easy for him to come out in the open field and challenge Ferdinand's cowardly army. Bands of a small group of horsemen would go out and return after inflicting damages to Ferdinand's army. Moosa thought that Ferdinand would be compelled to attack the city once he saw the daily increment in the destruction of his troops but these losses did not have any effect on Ferdinand. His army kept busy in digging trenches and fortifications around the city.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f42e70e2356c9c8c35e59a46c24f7038">Several famous legends of individual acts of bravery of the cavaliers from Granada are associated with the time of the siege. A cavalier would gallop his horse out of the city and would cry out the name of a famous knight of Ferdinand from a far distance and invite him to a duel. Not taking up a challenge was considered a disgrace by a knight. He would be compelled to enter into the field. Usually the cavaliers of Granada had the upper hand in such feuds. After taking care of one knight, the cavalier of Granada would call out for another knight for a challenge. Many of Ferdinand's knights had been killed in these individual duels. One day a horseman from Granada came into the field. His armor was shining and his entire face, apart from his eyes, was hidden in the aventail. His horse was extremely beautiful. He halted his horse at some distance away from the front rows of Ferdinand's troops and proclaimed loudly, "Is there anyone who has a desire for death?" After a while when he did not receive any reply from the enemy, then, he said, "Look at my horse. Even your King wouldn't have had the privilege of riding such a horse and my sword is embedded with jewels that are not even in your King's crown. Is there anyone who desires this sword and horse?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="75270688c6fb2048a94416b8b07d5dd6">Prompting his horse forward, Count Tendela replied, "More than that horse and sword, my heart desires to rip away that audacious tongue." After a while the corpse of one of the best knights of Ferdinand was agonizing in ashes and blood. Marcos of Cadiz came into the field, but he too, met with the same fate. After that, Granada's cavalier had condemned seven of Ferdinand's best knights to death, one after the other. The spectators on the boundary wall of Granada were raising slogans in jubilation. The cavalier waited for a competitor for a while and then said, "Where is your King? Till when will their spirits wait for him in the other world? Tell him that a he-man's sword would like to witness the color of his blood."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9d214a68fe3fe5d9128d1c6a9c666c13">One knight got excited but Ferdinand held the reins of his horse and said, "No. No. You do not have the permission to go and duel with him."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b5a44708b1275e2027e8ca2c562ae4e3">The cavalier from Granada removed his aventail as he approached close to the gate of the city. The guards lowered their heads in his respect. This was Moosa Bin Abi Ghassan. The last sword of the Muslims of Granada.</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="e4b00b4a65a415cf9ebaa9f83719c071">(2)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="98e59292608f45dd285e2331d099098c">Abu Dawood stood in front of Ferdinand. In a state of extreme helplessness, he was witnessing the effects of his pleas on the face of the King. The King had rejected his appeal against the religious court of Loja. Hopeless to get justice, Abu Dawood had appealed for mercy. The King's silence was nerve-wrecking for him. He was feeling that his star of destiny had fallen onto an ill-fated path. This was the first time he was standing in front of Ferdinand instead of sitting on a chair. When he had first entered the tent, he was sure that Ferdinand, as usual, would step forward, shake hands with him, seat him on a chair and after enquiring the reason for his visit would say that the priests of Loja have gone crazy. But, as soon as he entered, when he saw him and Ferdinand said, "My sympathies are with you but this is the verdict of the court of the church. The court has sent that verdict to me for endorsement. I am helpless. I didn't expect this from your girls." Abu Dawood couldn't believe his ears. He kept staring at the King for a long time. Finally, he began his speech with a few broken words. After a few sentences his speech had gained fluency. He gave several justifications to prove Rabia's and Angela's innocence but Ferdinand shook his head negating them and said, "You can't convince me. Your girls have confessed to their crime. It was possible for me to forgive Michael's murder but insulting the church and revolting against the government are crimes that can't be forgiven under any circumstances. For one of your girls, the court is right in saying that she is a sorcerer. For the other one, I am ready to believe that whatever she did or said was because of the sorcery of your other daughter but the words she used against the government, church and the court are unbearable even for me. Even if the Lord Bishop's daughter would have said those words, even her condition would have been no different than your daughter's."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3983eb7871c1976ed5784d2f4573bced">Abu Dawood's voice sank. However, he mustered up courage again and requested for mercy. He appealed against the services he had rendered. He said, "Your Highness! I have whitened my hair in your services and these girls are my last support. Please have mercy on me!" In reply to these pleas, Ferdinand remained silent for a while. Finally, he said, "My mercy cannot overrule the verdict of the court of the church, Abu Dawood. I am sorry. You have to be patient. This is a testing time for your loyalty."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3a29eb341479140b4932f9eee30c57ae">He said, "Your Highness! There has been no wavering in my loyalty but they are my daughters. They are daughters of that servant of yours because of whose efforts your forces are standing in front of the four walls of Granada today. They are the daughters of that person who has completed the preparations of opening the gates of Al-Hamra for you, who has removed cliffs like Abul Hassan and Al-Zeghel from your path to Granada. My Master! So far I have not even spread out my hem for the promises that you have made to me. I had merely come with a trivial request. You have decided to make me your Regent in Granada. Don't my girls have even this much right that they can defend their honor in my absence?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="99f7bccd7bc22a9485f6fd3c0da61428">"But they have killed Michael and he is the Queen's relative. We appreciate your services but we can't ignore Michael's services either."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e8fc6e92fbf235870cbb580f5e70ef7a">Queen Isabella, who was listening to these talks from behind a curtain, entered into the room. Appearing extremely under obligation Abu Dawood said, "Your Highness! Please have mercy on me."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e0513451032e32e98d8979d1d949c0de">Without giving any reply, the Queen went and sat next to the King. Ferdinand said, "Abu Dawood! If we cannot protect the dignity of the church, then what is the use of these victories?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9cfd48412fdfcf83b50b62ae79858fbc">Abu Dawood said, "Your Highness! I too have a share in these victories and I still have to do a lot for your final victory."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6167e7b6740d8e18ae8810329c7ff617">The Queen said, "If you want to frighten us that we cannot conquer Granada without you, then, you're mistaken. Through you we have merely bought the conscience of a few men. We would have done that even if you were not there. You have merely closed the deal but its price has been paid by our treasury. Now if you threaten to leave us then listen! There are people present in Granada that are more clever and more useful than you."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="ed2c5064af055b06e09409d3b248a76e">Abu Dawood thought of something and then looked at the King and said, "Your Highness! Maybe I didn't live up entirely to your expectations. It is possible that you don't feel the need for me for conquering Granada but there is still a front where you need me. Still there is strength in the wings of the frontier falcons. Even after Badr Bin Mughira's death there has been no difference in their ferocity and agility."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="db7e2a919c0188aa695e2f6e21d99fd7">Ferdinand became startled and looked at Abu Dawood and said, "Do you know that Badr Bin Mughira is alive! You have deceived us."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="006f5de06d264af7db20eabac1bd2f94">Abu Dawood replied, "As far as I know, he is dead. I had arrested him. Abu Abdullah had handed him over to the hangman, however, if a miracle from nature has saved him then I take the responsibility that I will present him alive in front of you. I would have to take a huge risk for this mission but if you promise to save my girls then I am ready to go for this mission. If Badr Bin Mughira is alive, then, I will bring him to you. If he is not alive, then I take the responsibility of killing his successor and spreading anarchy among his group."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fc497cd374fb38a21e99381da6296ad6">Ferdinand said, "A few prisoners of Granada have told us that he is alive. But you have deceived him once. Before promising you anything, it is important for us to know what your chances of success are in this mission."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ade625f491e6e1d56ad7aa412bd0bbee">"Your Highness! I seek forgiveness for my audacity but this is a deal. I am sure that the chances of my success are very bright but I won't tell you anything until you promise to save the lives of my girls."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e15f32785673fd1307d4a34db170a09a">Ferdinand looked at the Queen and after thinking for a while said, "Sit down, Abu Dawood. Listen! If your girls were not accused of the crime of insulting the church, then, it would not have been difficult to forget John Michael's murder, however, after your success in this mission, we will be able to have the punishment of your girls forgiven by the Lord Bishop."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8d04d9d26cffe5d7bce6624a7e72b405">"Your Highness! You will have to make a promise with this slave of yours.'</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1e7b2f2828163c921ffb99d6cea65567">"We promise that the sentence of your girls will be forgiven but if you don't fulfill your obligation, then, don't mention them in front of us next time."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b0acbff391ec1292194e35ae9e63036b">Abu Dawood said, "Your Highness! I seek a time of a month. Today, the date is the fifth in the lunar month. Please order the court to postpone to carry out their sentence to the fourth of the next month. If I don't return successfully from the mission within this time, then the court has the right to punish my girls on the fourth of next month at sunset. My absence would mean that I am not alive and would be waiting for my daughters in the next world."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4725dc99818cb390f6bcc0ccb09849b3">Ferdinand said, "I will dispatch my orders for the Governor of Loja today itself but before that you will have to tell us what are your chances of success." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="0393508845590760604e224fbc548971">Abu Dawood replied, "Badr Bin Mughira wanted to marry my elder daughter, Rabia. If he is alive and if I am successful in convincing him that the King will forgive your past mistakes, then, for the sake of Rabia he would be willing to come along with me."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f160a750ef8016c9d5fa356f10610fde">The Queen and King were not ready to believe this but when Abu Dawood narrated the events, with necessary additions and deletions, of his stay at the fort and of the arrival of Badr Bin Mughira at Al-Hamra, then they believed him to a certain extent. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="099780ffa8835aa833240537b71a57ea">The King said, "What if he is not alive?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c17c7b6caa98defc99680c09ed667b0a">Abu Dawood replied, "If he is not alive then you will hear that his successor has been killed or you will see that an influential segment of their group is extending its hand for a compromise with you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e6b22a13c2e78f7fbedee472dc101bea">Ferdinand said, "In both cases I promise to save the lives of your girls. Apart from that I will consider you for deserving the biggest reward but if you are not successful in this mission then the girls will certainly be punished. You should come to be me at least two days before the fourth of next lunar month so that I am able to stop the ruler of Loja in time from carrying out the orders of the court."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="8346666297d1fe1bf256e52e9e60847f">Abu Dawood replied, "It is possible that I may come back within a couple of weeks. If I stay away for some reason, even then, I will apprise you of everything before the end of this month. If necessary, I might ask for more time and I am sure, given the circumstances, Your Highness will surely grant me an extension of a few more days. But if, by the end of this month, Your Highness does not get any message from me, then, know that this slave has been sacrificed for your sake."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="591bdbb6e12631f6776168e31efdece2">Ferdinand said, "On your request, we will be able to grant you an extension of a few more days."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9d038088b7b573db5835447864a4ff42">Abu Dawood stepped forward, knelt on both his knees, kissed Ferdinand's hem and then said, "Your Highness! Please pray for my success." Then he turned his attention towards the Queen. The Queen had extended her hand towards him. Once more he came down on his knees and kissed the Queen's hand and said, "Your Highness! I know Michael is your relative. I am sorry about his death. After performing the required services, I hope this servant of yours would be able to reinstate his position of goodwill in your eyes." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="76f9e9679393b8ad2e5a6fb5c0d93957">The Queen said, "I will consider your success in this mission an expiation for Michael's murder. An attack or two, from the rear, by the tribals are bothering us."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="442d49dbfc7d39b43b99cf65b75fbd14">After a while Abu Dawood was riding a faced-paced horse and heading towards the valley of the falcons. He was witnessing the magnificent buildings of Al-Hamra on one side and the tents of Ferdinand's army lined up on the other. He climbed upon a cliff and halted his horse. For a while he kept looking at Al-Hamra and after taking a sigh, he said, "Al-Hamra! A number of funerals of great kings have left your four walls. Look at me. I am a funeral of someone else's desires. My helplessness is the realization of someone's pleasant dreams." Abu Dawood looked towards the tents of Ferdinand's troops and said in his heart, "Historians will say that Granada was conquered by Ferdinand. It would be written in history that Ferdinand's armies were stronger than the armies of Granada. Alas! Before going, if only I could write on every stone of Al-Hamra that if Abu Dawood was not there, historians wouldn't have remembered Ferdinand as a conqueror. O sky of Granada! You are a witness that nations are not destroyed by any Ferdinand of the enemy, but, there are their own Abu Dawood's among them who send them to the pangs of death. Goodbye, Al-Hamra! Farewell, Granada!!"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="38560d3d403d928e8b6a1e4e8f9e93e1">(3)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b8371b76a27dd27a6e5106b5851c4f82">A little after <i>Isha</i> prayers, Badr Bin Mughira was sitting with Bashir Bin Hassan, Mansour Bin Ahmed and some other main commanders in a room of his mountain fort. A day before, his army had returned after conducting a successful assault at the border and now the details of a new attack was being finalized.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6a774bed75e43f1aacf279ad8669c7b9">A soldiers entered the room and after offering his salutations respectfully, said, "Four soldiers have arrested and brought a man from the border. They believe he is a spy. The soldiers say that he refused to give his statement in front of the Commander of the Border. His demand was that he should be presented in front of the Supreme Commander."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7a28b9f96a5bb089ad6ade637de724d9">Badr Bin Mughira said, "At the moment, put him in prison and present him in front of me tomorrow morning."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4b816625d87d059658cb91ce2b39e1c7">The soldier said, "But he insists on meeting you right away. He says that he has got an important piece of news."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6796f93132f15dc9788b600e885b7046">"What is his name?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b32e0c158cf447de6f3f06315c66fc12">"He even refuses to tell his name. He says that if the Supreme Commander cannot meet him then he should be presented in front of Bashir Bin Hassan."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="472bbcea409d72f3084f7b82a2006020">After thinking for a while, Badr Bin Mughira said, "Who can he be? Fine, call him!"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8e0d1d7efb1164f5362cedfe3912b610">After a while the soldiers brought Abu Dawood into the room. For a few seconds, Badr and his companions kept glaring at him in amazement and concern instead of anger. So far, Abu Dawood didn't believe that Badr Bin Mughira was actually alive. After looking at him a few times with frightened glances, he spoke and said, "You must have been surprised to see me but I had to come."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="665aa24eabee8b20cd9a3dd0deb965f3">Badr Bin Mughira said, "Don't you think you have gone overboard in displaying your bravery?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a4bb87d36556fecf254ed572a63817aa">"I know I deserve the worst punishment but even you cannot prescribe the punishment I have suggested for myself, but, before that, I would like to say something."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cf8ad5e5a3a86b340d08dc42933f4e8c">"You want to say that Ferdinand's army is huge, therefore, we should lay our arms down."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="27848168305aaa7c8b829f24579277c1">"No. What I have come to tell you is that the court of Loja has sentenced Rabia and Angela to be burned alive and if you want, you can save them."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="22089de45f72e20d970b60557b0ac91f">Badr Bin Mughira and Bashir Bin Hassan would at times be looking at each other and then at Abu Dawood. Their glances were saying that Abu Dawood is lying. He has brought a new trap for them but their heart was saying 'what if this news is true?' In their sight Abu Dawood was the meanest person ever but despite this conviction, imaging Rabia and Angela being burned alive was enough to get them disturbed and worried.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="09fb5be081f6536d7eff4640b7ee65ca">Abu Dawood reiterated, "I know you won't believe me. You are right to consider me a double-crosser, conman and a hypocrite but you and Bashir Bin Hassan know Rabia and Angela far more than you know me. Rabia was already a Muslim and now Angela too has become a Muslim. You know that they possess feminine modesty and pride in their hearts. I have come to tell you that one of Ferdinand's knight had assaulted their honor and they had killed that knight. There was a court case for the crime of murder against Rabia and it had given her the death penalty, but on the day of the verdict, Angela suddenly reached the court and stated that she was the actual criminal of the murder of Ferdinand's knight. In her statement she also confessed that she had become a Muslim. Apart from that, she had insulted the court and the church and her speech against the government was extremely rebellious. The court has declared Rabia to be a sorcerer and an enemy to the government and church, and Angela has been charged with rebellion against the government, apostasy and insulting the church and court, and both of them have also been accused of the murder of Ferdinand's knight. Now they have been condemned to be burned alive."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="495956d50caf93ca8a8fff8ebd8cb39f">Badr Bin Mughira enquired, "When?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2e461be6dedde167dfcd5700cdb69c5d">Appearing a bit worried, Abu Dawood replied, "I was waiting for an appropriate time to reply to that question."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f70fd600f46f534fd3dc3b6bb0de8312">Looking towards his companions, Badr Bin Mughira said, "Apart from Bashir and Mansoor, everyone can leave."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ca204f7d853961fa7f16b7206e7803eb">When they had left the room, then Badr said, "Abu Dawood! A believer can't be bitten by the same trick twice. If the city of Loja is not in the sky, then believe me, my men will get to the bottom of this incident within a week and the reason I am saying this is because if you have come here with the intention of deceiving me, then, you should not be unaware of the consequences."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="16bdbc89475466e53ff203ce9b76abf1">Abu Dawood replied, "I won't advise you on what you should do. Because of my past deeds, you have all the right to be suspicious of me. You must be thinking that this time, instead of Al-Hamra, I must have prepared a trap for you in Loja but before sunrise I will be able to prove that whatever I have said regarding Rabia and Angela is correct. Keep me in your custody until morning. I will present my written statement to you in the morning. I want to be permitted to write while I'm in custody."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="42e735fd9f11b8729c4c5fab21abb42b">Bashir said, "Don't try to become a puzzle for us. If the magic spell of your tongue has been broken, then your writings too won't be able to fool us. We will confirm every detail of your talk from Loja. You have not replied to Badr's question. When will they be punished?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e77b121e0b6d4db2b14b29130329a9b7">"They will be burned alive on the fourth of the next lunar month at sunset."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a76a7656c8c7ced0e18fdc97fbdb0b7c">Mansour said, "Do you want us to attack Loja on that day? We would have entertained this request of Ferdinand but unfortunately Loja is a bit far from here. You people have miscalculated our intelligence in military matters. Had he spread his web of deceit in some city in the vicinity of the border, then, we might have been compelled to respect his wish. Now if we are not ready to be deceived then we should feel sorry for the stupidity of the one who did not think that the Shaheens, whom we want to trap, are not deprived of vision."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="8ec8fed9d3a39e3a192acf3d351330b7">Badr said, "Abu Dawood! Even if I suppose that Rabia and Angela have been sentenced by the court, but knowing you, why should I believe that that you have not cooperated with the court and government in the conspiracy hatched to give us directions to attack Loja. Why shouldn't I think that all this is a game? The government arrested them with your consent and the court has sentenced them with your consent and they will be looking forward for us in Loja till the fourth of the next lunar month. Maybe a dummy stack too might me prepared that day and you might not even feel embarrassed in having your daughters stand at the stack but you might be compelled to remove the web of conspiracy once you become hopeless of our arrival. Alas! If only you had a little bit of compassion and you would not have made a laughing stock of your daughters in front of the people of Loja for the sake of a few pieces of humiliation. Remember! On the fourth of next lunar month, my men will be present in Loja. They will stay there till the end of this game and when I come to know that Rabia and Angela have been dropped home after being removed from the fake stack then you will be hanged. Till that time, you will be in my custody. You deserve the worst of punishments despite this new crime. But I am willing to set you free if you tell me the complete details of this conspiracy. I don't like your girls becoming a drama in front of the people of Loja."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fb2fd343bf56dfa854512e9db2b9e2d0">Abu Dawood replied "In the given circumstances had I given my life any worth, then, I wouldn't have come here. I have asked until morning to submit a written statement. At the moment I, I think whatever I have said so far is sufficient."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4b2b9f7b88ad382b2d366f834adec789">Badr said, "I will not refuse your request but I am sure that your writing won't be more effective than your tongue."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4b0be85d658d11e304816487a59ef95e">Badr Bin Mughira clapped his hands. A soldier entered inside. Badr said, "Take him away and make preparations for his accommodation in a secure room. Take care of his food, drink and rest. Grant him the facility of writing but there should be no carelessness in guarding him." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="906f5e9d106b98ae7c5b5b37364a6249">Saying this he moved his attention towards Abu Dawood and said, "I also want to tell you that trying to escape from here would be in vain."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a82d839c0b86bd76add952d7721b9403">Abu Dawood left the room with the soldier without giving any reply. Four more soldiers, who stood outside with naked sword, also joined up with them. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="87ea35226a9522091324063cc3c278a5">For a while, Badr, Bashir and Mansoor kept staring at each other for a while in silence. In a condition of restlessness, Badr got up and stood in front of the window and started peeping outside. "Is this possible? Can this happen?" He was asking himself. Despite consoling his conscience with a thousand consolations, he would shiver at merely the imagination of Rabia being in the burning stack. His heartbeats were saying to him that it can be possible for Rabia to do such a thing. Rabia can risk her life to save her honor. It's quite possible for her that she might have killed some knight. She loves Islam. She has the courage to raise the voice of truth in the biggest of courts but no, no, Abu Dawood is a fraud. All this is a deception."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c7f8e26c18d7de158d4c468f33e4b543">Mansoor got up and went close to Badr and while putting his hand on his shoulder said, "Badr! If this is true, then you should have the consolation that no wall of Loja will be able stop our path."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d0c5f530dc1e4f80bf0715aa90ed41e2">Badr suddenly turned around, looked at him and said, "The lives of two girls of Loja are not more valuable than the lives of the thousands of girls of Loja. These <i>mujahids</i> are shouldering the responsibility of the entire nation. I won't put my share of the burden on them. This matter will be limited to Bashir and me only."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0196ad03849025cae363f3ca428b4a36">Both of them looked at Bashir and he stood up. It was difficult to analyze his reaction. There was no effect of that storm on his face which was brewing deep down in the bottom of his heart. For a while, he remained standing like a rock and then left the room after saying, "I am going out to attend to some wounded patients."  </p>
                          <p data-p-id="0fc37284863f81c98ae7fb1ff86dda49">After looking at Badr for a while, Mansoor said, "If Abu Dawood has convinced you that his information is correct then I can compel you to confess that our attack on Loja would be able to yield very vital results. Even now our main issue is to divide Ferdinand's attention on two fronts."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="fad3d57b4bef0f4ad55dff54679164a3">(4)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="12147949bd0ab6743d63bfa87b25773b">The next morning Badr, Bashir, Mansoor and some other officers were having breakfast when a soldier nervously entered into the room and gave the news that, instead of his bed, Abu Dawood is lying unconscious on the floor. These people went running into his room. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="dcbbf0c38df134f6f53b88d96dc46138">Abu Dawood was lying with his face on the floor. Bashir Bin Hassan quickly turned him around after putting his hand on his pulse and said after opening his eyes, "He is dead. I think he poisoned himself."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ce81990e40f407da975e37522c358c32">In the corner of one side of the room, a pen, an inkpot and some papers were lying on a small table Badr Bin Mughira picked up a few papers that had Abu Dawood's writings on them. On Bashir's cue, the soldiers picked up Abu Dawood and lay him on the bed. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="26b5cf757b2e77ccd6851e2659054a08">After frisking him, Bashir Bin Hassan recovered a small silver box from his pocket. After opening and taking a look inside it, he said, "He has taken that poison whose antidote is not known to this day."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5f8a35fd7b6332c8da29493073100a4c">The rest of the soldiers of the fort too were gathering in front of the door of his room. Closing the door after ordering everyone else, besides Bashir and Mansoor, to leave the room, Badr said, "Bashir! We were wrong. This is his letter. Read it."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ddd323923846f2a0620ca37675dc4d5d">Initially, Bashir extended his hand a bit indifferently towards the papers but after reading a few sentences his entire concentration became focused on this writing. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="f8316887399a2e5be30a34af4c50bdd4">Badr said, "Bashir! Read it aloud. I have merely seen a few lines."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8751045f55cd3cd173579961edbf1126">Bashir got startled, looked towards his companions and started reading aloud. This was the content of the last letter from Abu Dawood that was addressed to Badr Bin Mughira:</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4ba8819ab7170aaaa3e13ced6ff8a79b">"You will get my letter at the time when I am not in this world. Without this disgraceful death I had no other way of convincing you that my news regarding Rabia and Angela is correct and I had come prepared for this. With my death those mean desires and filthy intentions will perish because of which I became a nation seller and a traitor in your sight. The truth is that the Abu Dawood who dreamt of ruling Granada, who had desired to build palaces for himself on the corpses of his nation, had died a few days ago. He had become compelled to strangle himself at that very moment when Ferdinand refused the plea of mercy for his daughters and that Abu Dawood whose corpse lies in front of you was present in front of you, the previous night, only in the capacity of a father. The issue of saving the lives of his two daughters was in front of him. Therefore, my second death is a death of a father and whatever I am writing before my death and in a situation when lying won't benefit me, I am feeling a kind of relief in saying the truth.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="438adc48180e5703f96c5e812299bca7">All you know about me is that I conspired to kill you after calling you in Al-Hamra and instigated Abu Abdullah to revolt but my crimes are far from that. I am your father's killer. I am the one who wrote to him and invited him to Toledo. The first time when I came in the capacity of a guest, I was Ferdinand's spy and the attack by the enemy on your fort during the night was on my behest. I got Moosa arrested in Al-Hamra. I had convinced Abu Abdullah to become a nation seller. In Granada, the Muslim spies from Andalus who have been sent to propagate against the <i>jihad</i> were trained by me. You have asked me, when will Angela and Rabia be punished and I have told you that they will be burned alive on the fourth of the next lunar month. You must be surprised as to why the court has given them so much time. At night if I had told you the reason then you would have suspected me even more. To get a time for a month I had to promise Ferdinand that if Badr Bin Mughira is alive then I will present him in front one you under one pretext or another. I had also promised him that I will create schism in the ranks of the <i>mujahideen</i>. Against this, Ferdinand promised to save the lives of Rabia and Angela.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c749efc23f42d74941b5d58ec73ad377">Abu Dawood, the politician, might never have confessed to these crimes of his under any condition but Angela and Rabia's father sees their benefit only in this that before dying, he should remove all his masks. After me, if the lives of these girls can be saved by some plan of yours, then, I entrust Rabia to you and Angela to Bashir Bin Hassan. For quite sometime, I knew that they had chosen both of you to be their friend and protector but in the scheme of my life there was no place for the respect of their wishes. I viewed them as a father only when I got to know, that in my absence, the court of Loja has sentenced them to death. I don't feel the need of pleading you to save their lives. You know that the relation between Rabia and Angela was only a bond of blood and this relation will end with my death. I won't see their outcome. Their screams won't reach my ears from the burning stack. Even if I was alive they wouldn't have regretted while dying that they were being separated from their father. They have no interest in my world. They are only interested in the world in which you and Bashir breathe in. They have no attachment with my forts in the air. They wouldn't have any regret in leaving the palace of the governor in Loja. At the burning stack, they would only imagine that valley in which they had found a secure habitat for their wandering souls. They would look towards the sky and say, "Badr and Bashir, where are you?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="872ea6c793cd01aa6d600106501aaeaa">My sight cannot get to the bottom of the depth of the ocean of life in which you have found each other. All I know is that they have jumped into that ocean only because of you. Now if the flame of their life is going to be extinguished then the reason for that is because you have instilled the desire in them to play around with storms. That honor which compelled Rabia or Angela to kill John Michael was actually granted by you and Bashir. That courage which taught a girl's feeble hands to use a javelin, that tongue that gave a rebellious speech in the court, was an interpretation of your views. I couldn't see Rabia and Angela in prison but someone who did see them has told me that they don't regret even a bit of what they have done. It is their firm belief that if God desires for them to live, then, He is capable of converting the fire of the stack to a garden. Badr and Bashir! You know better than me as to who has produced that faith their hearts.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4cb4f1da9934d0d9c70097109568ce3f">If you do not deny on taking all of these things on your head, then I would say that Rabia and Angela's matter is yours and Bashir's matter and that I do not have to worry about it. After handing over the responsibility of saving their lives to you, I am freeing myself of it. I can't tell you the way in which you can save their lives. That is your duty. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="446e27b65165694bb376549653eb3755">I would like to say something regarding the future of Spain. Time has proven that whatever I have thought or done till today was wrong. I chose flowers for myself and spread thorns for my nation but my share of the flowers became the adornment of Ferdinand's lap. My hands and feet are wounded with thorns and I don't know the culmination of my nation. My politics is finished. I am dying a death of humiliation and failure. You might consider my suicide hateful but today I have come to realize the fact that a death of dignity is only for those people who select a path of a life of dignity.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="42f62db692ea9b280633e9caa9a60145">I have not said anything regarding my wife. I don't consider her worthy of mentioning. To save Angela, she stood as a witness against Rabia. If she had not taken poison after hearing the court's decision, then, I would have strangled her with my own hands. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="585cfa414249d92e2a1627e5cca6808c">With the culmination of this letter, I have written the final lines of the book of my life. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="3c588f81ccf4677385e3949a36e21a99">Abu Dawood</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6c56b3ecd90969b7e282a0073b2873ba">"Angela and Rabia's father"</p></pre>
</div>
</body>
</html>
