<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 20: Tears and Smiles</title>
  </head>
  <body><div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="e7fcf8e49e39af3c66af246fdcf535df">             </p>
                          <p data-p-id="7acce3193127d4b71a6c2b140c22dc95">(1)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cedb136407f30e9b3f23ae870138730c">A little before sunset thousands of men and women were gathering around Angela and Rabia's stack in an open ground on the outskirts of the city of Loja. They were tied to wooden poles next to each other. A group of monks was singing songs in praise of the Holy Mary near the stack. The people were anxiously waiting for sunset. The Governor and the new Bishop kept looking at the evening horizon every now and then. The people had come to know that Ferdinand's final verdict would be awaited till sunset. If the King's emissary did not bring any new order then the stack would be burned. Two soldiers stood ready near the stack with burning torches.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2dc5e7fa13f51c644df64bd7bcaad653">Rabia and Angela had no doubts about themselves but they didn't know the reason in the delay in the burning of the stack.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9aec6ec38694709f2b6c0b17d42bd0c3">Angela said, "Rabia! I used to be very scared of death but now I am feel that death is not such a scary thing but this waiting period is nerve-wrecking for me. What are these people waiting for?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a19814a32108455ebb38bdbb229be6aa">"I am amazed myself. The sun is setting. Maybe..."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6a0d9256dc6d4e6357b237b08a3b0dfc">"Maybe what?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="30dcdda21a3da535bfc93030d0b6ac6a">"Nothing, Angela! I was thinking...maybe destiny has disapproved the verdict of the court of Loja. Look, the sun is still there where it was."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="744d082e30c3f38b987ac1f64e18ed8f">Angela said, "Rabia! This is no time for taking support in fictitious hopes."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5d77cebeaa38bd85e422083c112a9cb1">Rabia replied, "All I was saying is that God has the power of changing the decision of any person and when the flames of fire come close to me, even at that time, I will say the same thing."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="944fa211ac4a29277ef47736c7f32fda">"Rabia! Even I am of that faith but now only a few steps are left to the gate of death. Pray that my feet don't stumble."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9ed3190ee2c78ffe8f82671c1a3cdc87">Rabia said, "Your feet won't stumble. Angela! I am proud of you. Every daughter of Islam will be proud of you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="30b93928eea0c19981e6f08556993e16">"Pray for me, Rabia! Support me."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="424df10616893620758fbe80363af9f7">Rabia looked towards the sky and said, "O Granter of reward and punishment! Give us steadfastness. You are witnessing our helplessness. You are aware of our weaknesses but let not our weakness and helplessness be known to others. May our plight only knock the door of Your Mercy. May these people not hear our screams."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ca2d8b9391cbdb5e18d2f055d69f9070">As Rabia was performing her supplication, five hundred horsemen appeared from the direction of the ground and the people started shouting, "They have arrived!"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f9a182355f21d8413d9992df01cd2556">The people encircled around the horsemen. Now no one's focus was on the stack. The horsemen were wearing the uniforms of the soldiers of Castile. The people were asking them, "What order has His Majesty the King issued? Why did you take so long?" The Governor of Loja and the Bishop tore forward through the crowd. Even the monks who were singing, dispersed around and tried to get close to the horsemen but one of the monks kept singing as usual and went and stood near the stack. Like the rest of the monks, his entire body was hidden in a white robe. Hearing the sound of his voice, Angela and Rabia's attention focused on him. While singing, he dragged himself closer to Angela and Rabia and slid away the heavy cloth from his head. For a second, Rabia and Angela could not believe their eyes. They were looking at him spellbound. This was Badr Bin Mughira. Suddenly another monk came and stood close to him. From his voice it sounded as if this was his first attempt at singing. He tried to sync his tone with that of his companion but despite trying, his voice would either become too low or two high. This was Bashir Bin Hassan.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fd9303f9f09e5c14edf375266b417c7b">With the last ray of the setting sun, Rabia and Angela were witnessing two bright stars of hope on the sky of their destiny. When the pace of the heartbeats reduced a bit, Rabia looked here and there and then whispered, "Don't commit suicide for our sake. For God's sake, leave."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="75c879f3e9ccb549d5db3510e0d52980">Badr gestured for her to be quiet by placing a finger on his lips and got hold of Bashir's arm and singing as usual, moved towards the crowd.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="95a23c324ab1089692df9a448a561531">Don Louis silenced the people that had gathered around the horsemen with great difficulty and then addressed the horsemen and said, "You arrived very late. We were about to set the stack on fire. What order have you brought?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5e9fbffab7d5df9dda07272761b97ad3">One horseman said, "We would like to talk to the Governor."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="09e31269dfaf4f5ca44ace34ab23643e">Don Louis got upset and said, "I am the Governor."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="afe2a4c7b4f99bc83769a39e23df3b86">The horseman calmly said, "His Highness the King has dismissed you. Count Antonio will arrive here shortly with the royal decree. He has ordered us that the sentence of Abu Dawood's daughter be postponed. We have arrived here in a hurry. Count Antonio will be here in a short while and announce the final verdict of the King to you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bc0769803f5feedcdc6c28bb329c0129">Don Louis stood in a state of shock. In a state of hopelessness the people would, at times, look at the Governor or the Bishop and at times at the horsemen.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e85601ebef3077de304c470f3e5a011d">Finally the Bishop said, "We have the written order of His Highness present with us and that is that if His Highness thinks there is a need to alter the verdict of the court of Loja then today before sunset another written statement of his would reach here and if his emissary does not reach here before sunset, then, it should be thought that His Highness is in agreement with the verdict of the court. Now the sun has set. So far the King's emissary has not come to us with any decree of his, therefore, if Don Louis gives the order of burning the stack, then, he will be doing his duty. If you are the emissary then present us His Highness' written statement or else we are not ready to listen to anything."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cd11b01b0d03e5eb23fb4c087f3f3e74">The horseman replied, "But we have come with the emissary and this Governor has been dismissed."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="662cb95cfdcf0c65ead745cceb9cf042">The Bishop said, "But until he doesn't get the King's orders, there won't be any difference in his authority. If the King has actually sent Count Antonio with some orders and he couldn't make it here on time, then that responsibility will be on him. Don Louis won't be answerable for that. Don Louis was instructed to wait till the evening and now it is evening." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="38b565e17c07ddcf88e1fd98608260d0">The horseman replied, "We have been sent so that we can protect these girls and we will do this duty even if we have to sacrifice our lives."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="927f4a53a4af7e536b9eed2a829a5b72">The Bishop and Governor became concerned and started looking at the public. The people were not happy with the interference of these armor-clad soldiers. Some men tried to provoke the public but no one was ready raise their hands on Ferdinand's soldiers. Finding most of the public subdued, Don Louis said to the horseman he was having a conversation with, "I do not know who you are and how far your information is correct. I will wait a little more but if your news proves to be wrong then you should be prepared for the worst punishment. Count Antonio is the Governor of Cordova. I don't understand how is he being sent over here and what mistake have I committed because of which I have been dismissed."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ea181ba4760e98aaf50bfe0ce04fd75d">The horseman replied, "It could be that Abu Dawood complained about you to the King. Nonetheless, this matter will clear in a little while. Count Antonio must be arriving. In the meantime, we will remain on guard around the stack. Count Antonio had expressed the concern that the people might maltreat the prisoners in a state of agitation."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9b98e52417592069676dac43ea334c51">Don Louis replied, "My soldiers are enough to guard around the stack."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1215839647a59dc0ff5f3ac535a2a43a">The horseman replied, "No, Count Antonio will be upset with us if he sees such a big crowd around the stack. It would be better to push the people further away to the back."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="63a71e8f40b7bdfe8526c6311c74ce60">Don Louis was an extremely tough man but after hearing the news of his dismissal he did not have that initial fervor and enthusiasm. Every now and then he would ask in his heart as to why he was dismissed, what mistake had he committed, why was he being rewarded in this way for his brilliant services. He thought that Queen Isabella's recommendation might be able to break Abu Dawood's magic and he wanted to fly away and go to the Queen. Displaying their lances, when the horsemen started shoving the crowd backwards away from the stack, then, he did not show any opposition and seeing this change in the Governor's attitude, the Bishop's anger too had mellowed down somewhat. Now he regretted his words and was mustering favor with the soldiers and was saying to each one turn-by-turn, "Look, had you brought the written statement of Don Antonio, these things wouldn't have happened. Anyways, he must be coming. How far was he when you left him? It has been quite a while. Now even the moon is setting. Maybe he might have lost his way?"</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="85bfd937112af76bddb77293bcbecceb">Over here, now Don Louis himself was scolding the people and pushing them back.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d27ac0e386a345a260630f95ed2beef9">The moon of the fourth of the lunar month was culminating the short distance of its destination and gradually the darkness of the night was increasing. Badr Bin Mughira and Bashir Bin Hassan were circling around the stack in the garb of monks. The Inspector of the city, too, was circling the stack vigilantly. Badr said to Bashir, "Keep his attention focused on you. He seems to be a clever man."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0e403cd48dfc11ddd60ac6858476851e">Bashir stepped forward and said to the Inspector, "This is so unfortunate. To this day the verdict of any court of the church has not been humiliated so much."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6442519c704836e70ade4b45b18cf96f">The torch-bearers had been pushed back quite far away from the stack by the horsemen therefore the Inspector could not take a good look at his addresser. He enquired, "Who are you?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="593d44a1ccdbc5db083f83be47793e0d">Bashir replied cautiously, "I am a monk from the monastery of Toledo."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="783f5d971fe74a32acae5ed56f414257">"How did you get here?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="042552b47cfebe3412a6a70af54cd47a">"I was going to Seville. Seeing this drama I stopped here. I am a physician too. The Bishop of Seville has called me for treatment. I wanted to ask you that if the King so commands, then, will the court of the church take back its verdict for such a serious crime?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cc6b7c8ef8e11d8a052f082cf57217a5">The Inspector replied, "The church of the court does not have to take its decision back. The King will nullify the verdict with his decree."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0776253f89d98746047c04735d89c516">"This would be an insult to the church."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3b6b97eed039dc922f8003341ce368c1">"The King understands the interests of the church better than us."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e7e0b504610fac2eb3eaba34d6edee5b">(7)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6be16b2c818211c34f834e0ca9473808">When Bashir Bin Hassan was talking to the Inspector, Badr Bin Mughira went close to Rabia from behind her and while cutting the ropes of her hands and feet, whispered to her and said, "Rabia! Will you be able to ride a horse?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4f778739ee2881197194dca178bab453">As soon as Rabia freed herself of the rope, she turned around and started looking at him instead of replying. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="50b065b4034fe8f9f5675c85531a5f94">Badr said, "Not now, Rabia! Stand in the same way for a while."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3f55bbd20c6a04d7403d31ad18612851">Rabia stood in the same way, attached to the pole. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="a0d808f317bcf9a13b3972e2de2928fe">Badr said again, "Today you will have to travel all night long. You will be able to ride a horse, wouldn't you?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="24b37141c9e3ee9bb29c470f06e568d4">Trying to bring her throbbing heart in control she said, "With you?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8b9aa1f36b38c2ad35a6c83b280039b9">"Yes, with me."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="dfbcc524d45444627bb6c256dd66a4e7">"Traveling with you, I will not complain about the longitivity of the trip."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6b824760e06d5573d8a37c437cdb1dd1">"Angela also knows how to ride a horse, doesn't she?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="e91aef0e7421ef0242194e2606e33381">"Angela is a better rider than me."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8d00c8274a75995f6ea744efae256b0d">"Very well. Be ready then."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="774f12b3a737cd5792ae72ef6390d536">After this, Badr went close to Angela and cut her ropes and then went near a horseman and said, "Be quick. Give me your scaling rope"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f523ca1099a5dd0e425bc09dcb370998">The horseman removed the scaling rope tied next to the reins and gave it in Badr's hand.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="12e88473ab5a0a6b0039ef88552d7dc2">In the meantime at a distance, the sound of galloping horses was heard and all of the people's attention became focused the other way. Bashir Bin Hassan still had the Inspector's attention by talking on various topics but after hearing the sound of galloping horses the Inspector said, "Holy Father, maybe they are arriving. Please forgive me but do meet me tomorrow before leaving."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8417bde2a6e51ed439f63519bdd590f7">Without waiting for a reply from Bashir the Inspector ran forward. Both, the Bishop and the Governor, were now talking to a horseman. The Governor was saying, "It seems to me as if some army is arriving with Count Antonio."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="05c92dba9b4fc73ae3712a3d2d6e56cb">The horseman replied, "He must be having some fifty men with him."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fa2019f41d1ffeb71b012d0cd5d17f62">The Bishop said, "I don't understand the reason for bringing along so many men."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="39019d1f9fab7c1f272c45a79913f1e0">Badr Bin Mughira stepped forward and said, "Let me explain you the reason for this. Please come with me!"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="14432940cf5ceedf32bd3e73f46051cc">The Bishop became worried and said, "Who are you?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="867773cb8da08ef6803e77fa6b9931d5">Badr said, "You don't recognize me?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b258c5571cd780eed29a99da22bb5db3">The Bishop replied, "I can't see you properly in the dark and even your voice is foreign to me."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="bd3c01da4a1129274a4b40ffa20e7f0e">Badr said, "Holy Father! Let me say something important to you then there won't be any reason left to ask any question."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0475ad9a23b882da096f4f35f67d09b5">The Bishop said, "But what is it that you do not want to discuss in front of Governor Don Louis?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1cc66274f8357002f4be378a0f49d51a">Badr replied, "I will apologize to him later. Please come, I would like to talk to you on something important in private."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="267a3f9c9980980417d9adb142037be3">Badr got hold of the Bishop's arm, who started walking along with him in a state of nervousness and worry. Bashir was standing at a distance of a few steps. Seeing Badr he came closer. The Bishop said, "Those people are approaching. Quickly say what you have to and let go of my arm."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1c47e5746a672f624471ae1915d9f325">Pulling his arm into the iron grip of his hand, Badr said, "Be quiet."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f434dfe509f8544bd4dfbec9bd82713a">For a moment, the Bishop lost his wits. Badr said to Bashir, "Take him away and also take this rope. Keep half of it for the Governor. Let me bring him along too."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="d16c17fe631a9cfc945716bb7ad53e2a">The Bishop tried to shout but finding a dagger close to his jugular vein, his voice did not come out of his mouth. He began walking in front of him. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="1496022239a3b7cb0aa0227ea7e3d82a">The sound of the galloping horses had now came closer. Don Louis intended to go there when Badr Bin Mughira stepped forward and got hold of his arm and placing the tip of a dagger on his ribs said, "Come with me. If you try to talk then..." Instead of completing his sentence, he pressed the dagger and Don Louis became helpless and started walking along with him.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c587f36bb3e52ff39a3044c2866f976a">Now the horsemen were also trying to push the Inspector's men quite far away from stack. They were circling around the stack with greater speed and the Inspector's soldiers, trying to be keep a safe distance from the range of running horses, were stepping backwards.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="70820017023c2d95849e92437665f54f">Moving Rabia aside, Badr tied the Governor in her place to the wooden pole. In the meantime, Bashir Bin Hassan had already tied the Bishop in Angela's place. On the other side, the fifty horsemen raised slogans of "<i>Takbeer</i>" as soon as they reached close to the crowd and started driving them away using the other side of their lances. In a state of extreme panic, the people, screaming and shouting, began colliding with each other. The policemen of Loja were now running here and there with the people instead of guarding the stack. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="03194b70c463edb55ccc05742321773e">Four of the horsemen who were on guard around the stack jumped off their horses. Taking the garb of the monk off and after throwing it into the stack, Badr Bin Mughira took a leap and got on a horse. Bashir, Rabia and Angela got on the other three horses.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="53dfec54db3d442feaeededa00a4275c">Badr said, "Bashir! You take Rabia and Angela and wait for us over there. We will reach there soon. Be quick."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2c0a687995058a64c51cb4dedee3aa95">Bashir turned the reins of the horse around. Badr moved his attention to a fifth horseman and said, "You also go along with them."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="56b5a7e62cf46bcfc187b98188b01402">Taking Rabia and Angela along, Bashir and this soldier too off from another side. Badr Bin Mughira prompted his horse forward and grabbed a burning torch from a soldier's hand and threw it into the stack. The hay that was placed in the stack to burn the wooden sticks caught fire immediately. The Governor and the Bishop were screaming terribly but no one was there to hear their voices in the midst of the commotion in the ground, which depicted a scene of doomsday. The attacking horsemen were trying to push the people away only with the other side of their lances but the people were colliding with each other and were getting severely injured. In the darkness, the citizens of Loja thought that thousands of foot soldiers and horsemen had attacked them. The whereabouts of the Inspector and his policemen were unknown. In the flames of the fire, some people recognized the faces of their Governor and the Bishop but no one felt the need to go to their rescue.</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="14a45e0e32be303d8cc272f751fcfb9d">The ground was empty after a little while. After organizing the horsemen, Badr Bin Mughira said, "Our job is done but we need fresh horses for our return and there is no lack of horses in Loja. We have to return within an hour. Are you all ready?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="045460e9b4593bed2e50364b27a56f45">Mansoor Bin Ahmed's voice could be heard, "We are ready."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ec345ec58ab7c2b0b1633c443fe4df0e">"Let's go."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="38560d3d403d928e8b6a1e4e8f9e93e1">(3)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="21ef786c2315a0d57e93abaa5baf086b">After riding for about three miles, Bashir and his companions stopped at the gates of the four walls of a monastery. Two monks stood waiting for them at the gate. As soon as they recognized Bashir Bin Hassan, they called out to someone inside to open the gate. The guard opened the gate from inside. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="66d11f8b393da3a73cb3837fd6b9117f">Three more monks stood in the ground of the monastery. They got a hold of the reins of their horses. Angela and Rabia entered into a room of the monastery along with Bashir. This room was furnished with valuable things. Chandeliers of silver were hanging from its ceiling. A few chairs made of ebony were placed around a table on the marble floor. Eight candles were lit in a candle-holder at the center of the table.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="204e8954e48169aada573fef52c8fcc5">Bashir said, "For the time being, this is our home. You can rest here for a while."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="55c2995af34bfc3b8499ece2244be7fe">Angela nervously said, "But in this monastery..."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="28ab4bbd336467c2ad41499e728ebc0f">Smiling, Bashir removed his garb and threw it aside and said, "This monastery has been under our control for the past three days. These monks that you have seen are our men and the residents of the monastery are locked up in three rooms of the upper story. You must be hungry." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="82d25474b8a48f575e32c6aacf75d440">Angela first looked at Rabia and then turned her attention towards Bashir and said, "If this is your house, and if is not considered rude to get informal, then please permit me to say that my sister is dying with hunger."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="57290453c51f3e001f506c94e747a26f">Rabia replied, "My brother is the greatest physician of Andalus. I'm sure he won't make a mistake in recognizing which one among the two of us is hungrier."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="399fc103b23d247eb75f35df17fb6ef3">"Both of my guest are suffering from hunger." Saying this Bashir clapped his hands. A monk entered into the room.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="319bc4af6921adf9404644acc0be1803">Basher said, "Bring food for them and remove the robes. There is no need for them now."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7ac417331f57e4e514db42d7f1efd120">After a while the same man entered into the room in a soldier's uniform, carrying a tray. Apart from bread there was a roasted leg of a goat in the tray. After this another soldier came and placed a large plate full of apples and grapes.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8c68a9b855fe84e5195933fe3e9b4607">While getting up, Bashir said, "Please eat comfortably. I will leave to the other room." Rabia said, "Won't you also eat?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b98073fa980931a69208b5040b0ac4f1">Basher replied, "I will eat with the rest of the men."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="21f4cb282f458bb99124e191de710464">After exiting and passing through the verandah, Bashir entered into another room. Four men were seated here, who stood up on seeing Bashir. Bashir enquired, "Have all of you eaten your food?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cfffb04a6701a9a21f6d40053b45399a">One of them replied, "Yes, but Abu Mohsin has not eaten."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9e53536137dffb792c44ea2bb157c59d">Bashir said, "He must be upstairs arguing with the senior monk."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="066b6c134f5bf285d78fc23683ce6150">The soldiers burst into a laughter. Basher said, "Okay, call him and also get our food."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="daccaab2655796e476f30a45a2bb06f7">Badr Bin Mughira's horsemen entered this monastery close to midnight. In this brief period, apart from securing the best horses for themselves from the army headquarters, they had also burned the tents and houses of the army headquarters. They contented themselves in capturing the government's treasure and setting the Governor's house on fire.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5675d4a357afc48485a7b246cad783d7">Rabia, Angela and the rest of the men in the monastery whose number amounted to fourteen, stood ready even before their arrival.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6d7bd5360ebd98c2ea246e23b3297b57">Before giving the orders to depart, Badr said to Abu Mohsin, "Abu Mohsin, our job is finished in Loja. Tell me, were you successful or not?" Bashir Bin Hassan started laughing at this and Abu Mohsin became a bit embarrassed and said, "By God, he is absolutely a donkey. You left me here unnecessarily. He called me himself and said that he is somewhat being convinced about the truth of Islam. He said, 'Today you are leaving. Therefore come and propagate a little more about Islam to me.' And after breaking my head one time, I found out that that unfortunate fellow would have a good time with me after having alcohol."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="fec0fb3443ca02d39a76614c50bf41ff">Badr said, "I hope you did not strangle him?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b56b45186e3e5b206b07b827b3064624">"If I didn't have your orders, then, I would have certainly done that."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="878ac73842d4c7104382e121ab580711">Badr said, "Okay, now let's go."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8443dd0db4069b1f28e20cbca76dba5c">Before entering his secure territory, Badr stayed at three different places. He would travel during the night and during the day stay at those monasteries that were away from the cities and settlements in which his soldiers, in the garb of monks, had consolidated their positions a few days earlier. The residents of this monastery, like the monks of Loja were in custody. In whichever monastery Badr Bin Mughira would enter, his men would be ready with food for his men and fodder for the horses. With every destination, the quantity of his men kept increasing. When he was crossing the border of Ferdinand's kingdom, then the number of his men had become one hundred and fifty.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fad3d57b4bef0f4ad55dff54679164a3">(4)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="face17be5b693bf5d37b6914139db0c5">Badr Bin Mughira was strolling anxiously in a room of the mountain fort. His face had the effects of hopelessness, concern and anguish. Rabia entered into the room. Badr was in some deep thought. After a while when he did not notice her, then, Rabia took a step forward and said, "You had called for me?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a40d82024586308c10005d4e7ef2d400">Badr got startled and looked at her. "Yes Rabia! I wanted to say something important to you. Please sit down."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0074982fee2625ca855fe52ea747139d">His tone was so gloomy that Rabia became terrified. She went near the chair but in a state of confusion she remained standing. Once again Badr said, "Sit down, Rabia."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="401004740c4754c3fa287ddcb3463f65">While sitting down on a chair, Rabia said, "You seem very worried."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="76fa2ef09608366e80a00d2801662862">After being quiet for a while, Badr answered, "Rabia! I was thinking about something concerning you. The war with the Christians has entered into a crucial phase. I now believe that it is not right for you to stay here."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0ca0d66bec8f83a347b27b76241ec1a3">Rabia suddenly stood up. She wanted to say something but her voice sank. She was looking at him with pleading glances.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f23084d47ad825369b6119344be3a877">Badr said, "Sit down, Rabia! I still have not finished my talk."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7a3b00db70f488190e513c50e2ed041f">Rabia sat down and after thinking for a while, Badr said, "You know that because of Ferdinand's long siege, Granada's condition has become alarming. Whatever little supplies that were being sent there by our efforts through Sierra Nevada can't be not enough for the needs of thousands of human beings. People are sick and tired of starving. Now winter is approaching. With me, Moosa had decided that he would attack with the army of Granada on the first of the next month and I had promised to attack, with all my might, from the rear on this day. We were sure of our victory but today I received Moosa's letter. He has written that Abu Abdullah's minister has begun negotiations for a peace deal. Majority of the leading nobles are in support of peace and with the efforts of the hypocrites there is a growing segment among the public who is desperate for peace. Since there was a concern that there might be a possibility of Abu Abdullah and his nobles to have a change of heart, therefore, Moosa had postponed this attack. He has written that he will inform me once he has decided on some other day for the attack. Moosa is not of those beings who would become hopeless but after reading his letter I feel that the conditions in Granada are very alarming. Rabia! You can understand that, God forbid, if Granada slips out of our hands then the flood of Castile will surge on us. Therefore, I have decided to send you to Morocco before that time comes. The Sultan is my father's friend. Many members of Mansoor and Bashir's relatives are over there. You won't have any difficulty over there."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1052e375f283d48dd1ff28d92470fcfa">Instead of looking at Rabia, Badr was now looking towards the window that opened outwards.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a8706e2853209a48478ddfd4e643fc6e">Rabia's heart sank. She sat silently for a while. Finally, in a voice filled with emotions, she said, "So, you have decided to send me to Morocco."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="c1daf7154419792d1605822cbbab597c">"No. You shouldn't have any misunderstanding about me. I have merely given an advice and I am hopeful that you will accept my advice."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="83ef4f1ad21de359d48a2e6746038912">"Your advice?" Rabia said tearfully. "Why don't just say, 'Rabia, you are weak-hearted. You can't keep pace with the powerful speed of a Shaheen. Therefore, it is my command that you should leave from here. You are not needed over here.'"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b0d753ab99cf9b38893001163640d644">Badr said, "My world has nothing but thorns in it and nature has not created you to walk on thorns."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="58efb34d6055389936b33e21fb6f03f4">Rabia replied, "Nature had put me in a stack of fire and instead of burning, I had desired to walk on those thorns. The thorns of your path are dearer to me than flowers. My feet won't stumble walking with you. And why don't you think this way that just, like you, I too, am alive for a purpose? Nature has joined the path of my life with the road on which you are traveling on. You had promised that after the siege of Granada is over...but..." Rabia could not say anything more. She hid her face between both her hands and began sobbing.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ea7ef8e555949c342786b32b0ddb93c9">Badr Bin Mughira was touched and said, "Rabia! Please don't misunderstand me! Becoming your life partner is a matter of pride for me. For me you're that lush green tree under which a weary traveler takes refuge. The other day when I proposed to you for marriage I thought that spending a few moments with you after the war of Granada would be a reward for my life's past bitterness and difficulties. But now I feel that, in my desert, there is one windstorm after the other. The shore of the sea in which I have placed my boat in gets farther and farther away with each passing day. There would be one whirlpool after the other in front of me. Rabia! It would be in your betterment to go to Morocco. Before taking a major decision, I would like to be reassured about your future. Maybe someday my horse might return empty and you might feel that there is no one that you know in this valley." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="80ef7444274cf8b2ffab0209334090aa">Rabia stood up. She said, "If this is your command then I wouldn't dare to disobey but if this is not your command, then, I should be given permission to decide about things that concern me."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b83bc1aa897834b1228d9106a9dddd9d">Badr said, "I have still not finished my conversation. What I want to make you understand is that if the people of Granada lay their arms down then this valley, too, won't be safe from the storm of fire and blood and a time can also come upon us when there would be no path left for us except for a death of dignity."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="01d6b8549389361c1f56d9fdda7a867b">Rabia said, "So, can't I support you in a death of dignity."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ec7a12a9188f84011150f4ebc13b804e">Badr Bin Mughira said, "Rabia! I don't have any misunderstanding about you. I have seen you smile in front of the stack but I don't have the right to take you onto dangerous pathways of my life for the joy of a few days. There are nothing but calamities for you in my companionship. Rabia! I knock on the door of death everyday. For me there is only today no tomorrow."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f30beedc7beff4e0f88d656f44f8ab55">Rabia said, "Badr, God is my witness that I would give priority to a few moments in your companionship than to a life of a thousand years. If life is purposeless then what's the use of prolonging it? You say that you want to leave me on some shore before the storm. But if the end of life is nothing but death then instead of counting the waves sitting at the shore, why shouldn't I support you in the whirlpool? If you have any consideration for me, then, believe me when I say that, instead of this land, I have always seen you in the sky of my imagination. I am aware of my helplessness and inferiority. I won't compel you to comply with any of your past decisions. I am not worthy of becoming your life partner but don't deprive me of the blessing of becoming a companion in your mission. I can't show off any skill of archery or swordsmanship in the field but I can provide first aid to the wounded. Please don't send me to Morocco. Please don't compel me to say farewell to life even before my death."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6406ceb3793ed84c169ca101af2c2df6">For a while Badr Bin Mughira kept staring at this model of selflessness and loyalty. Suddenly a little smile appeared on his squeezed lips but he turned his face around and started to stroll slowly in the room with his head bowed down. After taking two or three rounds, he stopped close to Rabia. Rabia was witnessing the result of her destiny on his face. Her heart was throbbing.</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="eb2a0cddec1d90327507e98f7d88c8d9">Badr said, "Rabia! I wanted to give you a chance to review your decision. This was my duty and even after that if you have decided to walk on life's rocky pathways with me instead of velvet floors, then, I am thankful to you. If you are willing to close your eyes to the bitter reality that my life is only of a few years, months or days, then, I am willing to marry you today itself. Give me a, Rabia! Are you ready for this?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3b0dca0865920341d2f296212f048ed0">Redness of modesty spread over Rabia's face. She lowered her neck. She was tongue-tied but her heartbeats were giving a reply to Badr Bin Mughira's question. </p>
                          <p data-p-id="5da1e6c9ceecd4cf5b496a7ae55c426b">After a while, Badr Bin Mughira said, "Rabia! I have proposed to marry you. Please answer."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c27ea20893de26878681e75a01300d71">Rabia raised her neck and looked at him. Words came and stopped at her shivering lips. Emotions of gratitude and gratefulness took the aid of lowering eyes. Badr Bin Mughira was looking at those tears in her eyes that had a world of words enclosed in them. In amazement, he said, "Rabia! I am ready to apologize if I have hurt you. Rabia, you are crying."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3b877a4a5147bea0de39c31be267c1ce">Rabia wiped her tears quickly and looked at him and said in a pleading tone, "Please accept my apology for these tears. After the prologue, I didn't know that our conversation would end at this. These tears are an expression of a helpless woman's gratitude." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="cee590bacc54dcaee4c6e226e9d238a5">"So, you don't have any objection in getting married to me today itself?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f41684ac7e24f2659b8c9c307ae34ddf">She became serious and said, "You are joking."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2690edf6df815f0a1b688df932c5184f">He said, "I don't joke. If no incident occurs today then the last glance of the setting sun will fall upon Badr Bin Mughira and Rabia Bint Abu Dawood in the capacity of husband and wife."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="95d1623c996ab98adb017cc67402f51b">"But today itself? So soon?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7fe6904998fdfed45f5ef9c4ebd46657">Badr said, "Yes, if you don't have any objection."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cc102b27d697dadb98bd5f16b6dbc8cc">Rabia looked at Badr Bin Mughira and taking quick steps, went out of the room without saying anything.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4e1d8cddfa0d7c2d9f336c22517f104f">(5)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6fbbcdc89217eedc8a80a99c19977048">Rabia's feet were stumbling. With the pace of her heartbeats, the speed of her motion was increasing and, at times, decreasing. Crying "Angela, Angela" she entered into her room. Angela stood in front of the window peeping outside. She turned around and looked at Rabia. According to her own understanding Rabia had brought a major piece of news for her but seeing tears in Angela's eyes she said, "What happened, Angela? You are crying."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="dcf4c4600cdb334c94566431c5d0590d">Angela said in husky voice, "Don't you know?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="35cb1004c86606425e9a03472304890a">Rabia was looking at her in a state of immense concern. After wiping her tears, Angela looked at her and enquired, "When are the two of us leaving?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="fd0e410ddc7cefbc9bb836ff30db946a">"Where?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="cdce7867e84e6d0cb329a733eaa6ca13">"Rabia! You don't have to hide anything from me. He has already told me everything."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="124f97a132423f813014b7d2b007fc56">"Who? Bashir Bin Hassan?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5d963fcf8412a7938af0fff46399bb12">"Yes, he came here moments ago."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="32f7065ccd39e2735895ac33424e8284">"He must have told you that we both will be leaving for Morocco?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="f1a73e3663a39416778adb917df4e5c3">"Yes."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4cff959ecf357df9fcfed37110b89f8d">"But we both won't be going to Morocco. Angela, believe me we will be staying here."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5462cf9c42dd76b0f0f347affaa61a69">Angela said, "There is no use fooling yourself now. This is what our fate had instore for us."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b692a2685c85f7250834d364c3dd8f6c">"What reply did you give to Bashir?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8b2bbddd15e01e2bbf1baefff702cc80">"What reply could I have given him? He came and went away after telling me that you, along with Rabia, are going to Morocco. He was very sad. Rabia, I know that this was not the voice of his heart. Before I could say anything to him, he quickly left the room. I have no complaints against him. He had made no promises with me but your Frontier Falcon had given you the message of a marriage proposal. He must have given you the reasons because of which we are being compelled to go to Morocco. I am afraid that the situation in Granada is alarming."</p></pre>
</div>
<div class="page">
<pre><p data-p-id="a5826b6fe0ad0586c2a9976b157b23ae">Rabia said, "If I haven't conversed with him in my dream, then, today before sunset, your sister will become his life partner. Angela! Believe me you are not going to Morocco. That decision has been cancelled."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9c7f764a00b78e52ea5c527868fa9d6d">Angela stepped forward involuntarily, embraced Rabia and while sobbing said, "Rabia, don't try to fool me. For God's sake, say the truth."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a3249c634724dfb78117c92c6244181a">"I am not lying, Angela! Believe in what I am saying. Let me tell you everything. Sit down."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="298453012a1f477a8eaad309aa99d323">Angela sat on a chair and Rabia sat on a chair close to her and began telling her the tale of her meeting with Badr Bin Mughira.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9e19759ee26e1600b92e668d3f345a40">(6)</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6c512bf2987da0a5c8c203b3fcc3c030">In a spacious room on the other side of the fort, Bashir Bin Hassan and other physicians and surgeons were busy in taking care of patients. Badr Bin Mughira entered into this room. Bashir Bin Hassan was tying a bandage around a wounded person. Getting a cue from one of his companions, Bashir turned around and looked, then, stood up after giving his bandage a last knot.</p>
                          <p data-p-id="04ca1b7777b187baa9a79e789e0377f3">Badr said, "How long will it take you here..."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4112ef27712f6bc4eeeb573deae9c58a">Bashir replied, "My work is almost done here."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="98882f644e4ff9e6adb2381c823c6c1f">"I want to say something important to you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="979a1540096190e95f2e565c70bd3e2b">"If you are not in a hurry, I would like to attend to just one more patient. He won't let anyone besides me come near him."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="c021b8a10033d3157a837e01bd80fbed">"No, I'm not in a hurry. Come straight to my room once you're done."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8c0137a3956364db8d860e030568237d">After a while, Bashir entered into Badr's room and said to him, "You appear to be quite worried. Is there some latest news from Granada?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4e8092ce03609589cd878445f9fab65f">"No. I wanted to say something regarding Rabia and Angela."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7b879aed2951f0268843918684e507d2">"I have already told Angela. Have you received any news when the ship from Morocco will reach here and where it will dock?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="60b7ebc784b6650bfab4b9ab63b90ee7">"So far there is no news regarding it. It would definitely reach here within a day or two and they will probably dock in the north of Almeria in the same place they had docked last month."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="3990368d3f2526cde1970461877e1192">"So, I think, Rabia and Angela should leave for the shore very soon."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ea9767239c2f4261a33b9be7ae000775">"That's the issue I wanted to discuss with you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7452d152ae756543844b7a0ab3e2677c">"I think this matter has been decided."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="6c4a03e56fc77ced9382e853daca3158">Badr Bin Mughira said after thinking for a while, "Bashir! After having a discussion on this issue with Rabia, I have changed my opinion of sending her to Morocco."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="0471281ffad7542ce3ce3fd0e8b41d4f">Freshness suddenly appeared on Bashir's melancholy face and he said, "My dream came true."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="8a3344c03b74ece04836ab00c037489f">"And you will be amazed after listening to the last part of the realization of this dream."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b833ed11c179864424488713915f255b">While smiling Bashir said, "I already know the last part of the realization of this dream."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="2ec29e205b4ce2a5e67ba02963a33633">"Okay. Then tell me."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4e9baf974c71d5e4cc65d8b09ea5f2c9">"You are getting married to Rabia."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="b50dad06d7ecdcf9487658c094aa2cf8">"And when is that?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="89896ae0583a7067e90db890d6c3a40d">"Today."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9c3393be4fc1ad6701fecf192eee300c">"But how did you come to know all this. Angela must have told you and she must have heard it from Rabia."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="925d9c40d761ad4e973d026c8fb586a8">"No, Badr! Your face is like a book to me. You're are a mystery for the whole world, not for me. Now ask me, how did I come to know all this?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="06321021707b19f535579dbf722fafb1">"Tell me."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9626a423f7b5006b83d1bfa42a8cdcea">"After meeting Rabia, when you came to me in a state of concern, I knew that you have changed your decision. You confirmed my understanding after you told me that your worry was not connected to any latest development of Granada. Apart from this, if there was some military or political issue then instead of searching for me, you would have called Mansoor or a meeting of the council. Then, after that when you told me yourself that Rabia will be staying here, then, I understood that our falcon doesn't fancy staying in his habitat alone."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="854e64a2fbcf702c6dfa6310f5a70cc9">"But how did you come to know that I was getting married today itself."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ff6d4edf2244f09c3cb26b9f85f114ad">"It's written on your face that you have taken an important decision and your important decisions are implemented immediately."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="77c38107b7d9b277d10ca7122c19aaee">"So, you mean to say that I am hasty?"</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5d9dfe6bd1dbdadac233e86718e95bd7">"No, I am praising the most important quality that I find in a soldier. The time normal birds take in thinking to take flight, within that time the Shaheen swirls around the heights of the sky and returns. When you have decided that Rabia will be staying here then there is no question of delaying the marriage for tomorrow."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="a09059b7eeef96a61a8e5f8c88cb94f4">Badr said, "Okay, let's suppose that I am getting married today."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="1a3c5b8cdb79ec48eaa49e77bba436d6">While laughing Bashir said, "I don't have to suppose. I know."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="7009c99bb6cbe20f83f7dffa85ab7d28">"Okay, now I want to ask the Aristotle of Andalus what his plan is."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="9ff72297ae61a384a0a32f31d63f4036">Bashir replied, "The obligation of apologizing to a girl and taking back my wrong decision rests upon me and this obligation is not very pleasant. Aristotle's mind does not work in such situations."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="12958f6c483e5dc80619a40f6eaf75f6">Badr became serious and said, "Bashir! I want your marriage too, to take place today."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="31198f03c8a9d0697931be539903a081">Bashir replied, "Badr! You don't need to say that. Imagining being separated from her was nerve-racking for me. I am thankful to you that you have decided against sending them to Morocco. Had she left, despite my outwardly appearance, you would have felt that your friend has lost a lot from his wealth of life. Despite my empty laughter you would have felt I am hiding something from you."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="ad0a0acd0b78a1eef6f6afdaa9b7a14c">Badr said, "Bashir! Had I come to know that like Angela, you too are fond of her I wouldn't even have raised the issue of sending them to Morocco. In the morning when I said that now it would be better to send them to Morocco then your face was telling me that you're not concerned even a bit by my decision."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="5713b68b66494960466a213f73f80b73">Basher replied, "At that time, I was not concerned about my issue. I had a realization for those compulsions that compelled a <i>mujahid</i> like Badr Bin Mughira to say farewell to his dearest wishes. I was witnessing that that <i>mujahid</i> whose sword is providing refuge to its nation is bidding farewell to that girl that was going to become his life partner. You were standing in front of me like a rock. Your greatness was overwhelming me. For the sake of cutting the chains of the nation, you were breaking all the bonds of life and so how could a friend of yours say that someone has tied him to their hem with the golden strings of love? I felt sorry for Rabia too. I knew instead of being alive in Morocco she would prefer to die with you." </p>
                          <p data-p-id="47e113ae7f575877bc507dd54fe7ce21">Badr said, "Bashir! This is the first decision of my life that I have been compelled to change. I couldn't break Rabia's heart. I have apprised her of all the dangers of the future. Instead of the shore she has chosen the whirlpools with me. Now, only God knows whether this decision is right or wrong. For my part, I would like to console you that there would be no alteration in my objectives. For the enemy, there won't be any difference in the swiftness of my sword. I was afraid that you might ridicule me for changing my decision so soon regarding Rabia but I am indebted to you. Now go to Angela and console her."</p>
                          <p data-p-id="4f13d5860ffa4a1a4abb22d8b2ba7301">In the evening, the sound of drums was resonating in the valley of the falcons from one end of the border to the other. The couples, Badr Bin Mughira and Rabia, Bashir Bin Hassan and Angela were married.</p></pre>
</div>
</body>
</html>
