
# Al-Zeghel's Hopelessness

Badr Bin Mughira was residing in a mountainous fort. One evening, as he was
standing and giving instructions to the soldiers and officers gathered around
him in the fort's courtyard, a horse rider galloped into the fort. He pulled
the reins and halted his horse at a few distance away from Badr Bin Mughira.
Badr Bin Mughira took two or three steps forward and said, "Bashir! It seems
that you have not come with any good news."

Bashir Bin Hassan dismounted the horse and after shaking hands with Badr Bin
Mughira said, "The people of Granada would be happy with the news I have but I
take it as a cause for serious concern. Where is Mansoor?"

"He just went to his room after offering his prayers. Today it's his turn. He
must be getting ready. Come on, let's go to him." Saying this he turned to the
soldiers and said, "You will get the instructions after Isha prayers."

After climbing the stairs, Badr and Bashir entered a room on the second story
of the building. A candle was lit in the room and a cuirass-clad Mansour was
tying the laces of his socks with his leg on a chair. On seeing Bashir Bin
Hassan, he stepped forward, extended his hand for a handshake and said,
"Bashir! It is very good that you came. Just now I was thinking who would
treat me in case I am injured tonight."

Bashir Bin Hassan said, "Castile's armory has yet to make a sword that would
be able to injure Mansour."

The three of them sat on the chairs. Mansour asked Bashir Bin Hassan, "The
people of Granada must very worried about our veiled companion?"

"Yes, now in every gathering the Frontier Falcon's place has been taken by the
frontier's veiled man!"

"So they are still convinced about Badr's death?"

Some of the army officers suspect that he is still alive. There were many
others who wanted to dig out information from me but I used to remain quiet
after saying that a mujahid is ever-living."

Badr said, "Okay now tell us that news that the people of Granada were happy
about while you were concerned."

Bashir said, "Abu Abdullah has escaped from Ferdinand's captivity and has
reached Granada and Al-Zeghel has announced that he will handover the throne
to his nephew as soon as he has dealt with the external threats. Currently he
has been designated as the ruler of Loja."

Badr Bin Mughira said, "Is this true? Al-Zeghel cannot make this mistake."

Bashir said, "If this is a mistake, then Al-Zeghel has made it. I had met Abu
Mohsin. He was saying that before attacking the border, he was preparing to
take refuge with Ferdinand. The circumstances compelled him to stand in the
ranks of the volunteers. I do not doubt his intentions but he is an erratic
minded youth. To give him a responsibility in the current scenario would not
be without danger. Besides this, it can be said about Abu Dawood that he is
with Ferdinand and he is such a man who can manipulate Abu Abdullah to do the
worst of deeds."

Badr Bin Mughira enquired, "And the people of Granada are happy about this?"

"Yes. In their sight, Abu Abdullah has washed away his sins. There are many
people who are restless but they too are not willing to take any practical
steps for opposition."

"What about their concern for Moosa. Has that been addressed?"

"What Abu Abdullah has made known about him is that he had escaped from his
custody. He had produced some witnesses in front of Al-Zeghel."

"And Al-Zeghel believed this?"

"I told him that if he had escaped, he would have surely come to you but
Al-Zeghel said, 'Abu Moosa was a very proud man and Abu Abdullah was his
childhood friend. It's possible that after Abu Abdullah's misbehavior he did
not see it appropriate to show his face to anyone in Granada. Maybe he might
have gone to Morocco. Many of his family members have immigrated to Morocco. I
am searching for him and if I find out that Abu Abdullah has lied to me then
he would not get a good treatment.'"

Badr Bin Mughira thought for a while and said, "Mansour! Prepare to leave for Granada!"

Mansour replied, "But I have already prepared for the attack and the troops
must be waiting for me at the border.""

"I will go instead of you."

"But you need to rest. You have been on the horse all night."

"It is important for you to go to Granada immediately. Take my letter to
Al-Zeghel. Convey my message unequivocally that our war was not for a sultan,
emir or king. The sole purpose of our sacrifices was to make Granada a defense
bastion and gather our scattered bunch and to relieve the oppressed Muslims of
Andalus from the slavery of the Christians. Therefore, we had first accepted
Abul Hassan and then Al-Zeghel as our emir for this purpose. But Abu Abdullah
has been tested. As an uncle Al-Zeghel has every right to forgive every fault
of his incompetent nephew but he cannot be given the right to say that this
nation seller has repented therefore accept him as your leader. Tell Al-Zeghel
that even if Abu Abdullah has repented with utmost sincerity, even then he is
a lifeless corpse and a nation that is between life and death should not be
burdened with this corpse. He should fulfill his duties while he is alive and
after him he should leave the choice of selecting a leader to those who have
sacrificed their lives for Granada's liberty and the dignity of the Muslims. I
have no hostility towards Abu Abdullah. He deceived me and then tried to kill
me. I can forgive him but I am against handing over the trust of the people to
someone who has already deceived them. To show a proof of a change of heart if
Abu Abdullah has expelled a few border attackers then the maximum recompense
should have been that he should not have been punished for his past mistakes
but making him the ruler of Loja and accepting him as the successor of
Granada's throne is a reward he no way deserves."

Mansour said, "I know what Al-Zeghel's reply would be. He will say, 'Had he
not been generous with his treatment towards Abu Abdullah, the people would
have said that my struggle was for personal gains. Apart from this, I'm afraid
of turmoil. Abu Abdullah's supporters would start a civil war in Granada.'"

Badr Bin Mughira said, "What would be a more generous treatment with Abu
Abdullah that he has not been dragged into the markets of Granada with a noose
around his neck. Tell Al-Zeghel not to give any weight to such people whose
self-deceit is such that they want to build a nation with a tried and tested
traitor. And unity does not mean that you tie a horse and donkey to the same
coach. If fifty soldiers carry the corpse of fifty soldiers on their
shoulders, they do not become a hundred soldiers. To stop a civil war you do
not need to handover Granada at the hands of incompetent men but the remedy is
to create a general opinion so that the incompetent people wouldn't dare lay
their eyes on the seats of power. A nation that wishes to survive crushes it
traitors. It does not please them with bribes."

Mansour said, "Write the letter. I am ready to go to Granada."

After a few days, Mansour brought a reply from Al-Zeghel for Badr Bin Mughira.
It said:

"My dear! I received your letter after Abu Abdullah had served his last blow on
us. Abu Abdullah has handed over Loja to the enemy. Eight thousand of
Ferdinand's troops have entered this city. My intentions were not bad but
maybe nature does not forgive political mistakes. I have nothing but tears of
regret in front of you and in front of the nation.

The capture of Loja by the Christians is no less than a stab in our chest.
Maybe Granada's days are numbered. If you were with me, maybe I would not have
made this blunder and now a heart-broken old man is in need of your help. Not
for me but for Granada. Not for safeguarding the crown and throne of Granada
but for the respect and dignity of the Muslims.

At the moment I would not call you to Granada for my aid. You are Granada's
last hope. You are the last support of this sinking boat and I want you to be
safe from evil. The valley of the falcon is our last bastion. If you increase
your attacks on the border, the enemy will divide its attention on two fronts
and I will try to recapture Loja.

I think Ferdinand considers the valley of the falcons no less vital than
Granada. It's quite possible that he could attack your territory before
attacking Granada.

So, speed up your preparations. My son! I hope you would not be disheartened
because of our faults. If you become hopeless then I'm afraid the flame of
hope for Muslims in Andalus would vanish before the peep of the morning."

In a very melancholy environment Badr Bin Mughira, Bashir and Mansour
discussed the future of the Muslims of Granada and Andalus in the light of
Al-Zeghel's letter for a while. Then, Mansour Bin Ahmed pulled out another
letter from his pocket, presented it to Badr Bin Mughira and said, "This
letter was given to me by Abu Abdullah's wife and she requested me not to
present it to you unless your anxiety concerning Loja is not settled. She also
expressed the concern that you might tear up the letter believing that she was
defending her husband."

Badr Bin Mughira took the letter from Mansour's hand and handed it over to
Bashir and said, "Read it out."

Bashir opened the letter and started reading it:

"My Respect-worthy brother! With the permission of uncle I had read your letter
and uncle had also shown me his reply to your letter. He has taken the entire
blame on himself. The truth is that the major blame of this national sin is
mine. Had I not convinced uncle that my husband has repented sincerely, he
would have surely tested him completely before trusting him. The Queen put in
a good word for her son and I seconded her and now I am writing this letter to
you so that you don't have any doubt about uncle's intentions.

I am one of the thousands of your sisters of Andalus for whom you have raised
the sword to safeguard their dignity and believe me that I have more trust in
your sword than the four walls of Al-Hamra. After shedding tears of regret,
can a sister of yours hope for forgiveness from you, that you will forgive her
first and last mistake and God is a witness that when I call you brother I
feel that our relation is stronger than the relation of blood."

Your Sister, Aisha.

Badr Bin Mughira looked towards Mansour and asked, "So this means Abu
Abdullah's wife is still in Granada?"

"Yes. Abu Abdullah was adamant to take her along but his mother said that her
daughter-in-law should not go out of Al-Hamra until the danger of war
prevails."

Fifteen thousand Christian troops had gathered in Loja. Abu Abdullah sent his
spies to different cities of Granada and started the mission of buying out the
hypocrites with the wealth given by Ferdinand. Those who had associated their
hopes with Ferdinand from the beginning itself, had now become even more
hopeful and Abu Abdullah's power increased with each day.

Apart from this, the peace-loving group that wanted peace at all cost began
propagating that if the Muslims of Granada continue their war with the
Christians, then Muslims in the rest of Andalus would have to bear the
repercussions. They opinioned, "Andalus is a combined nation of Christians and
Muslims and since the Christians are greater in number and power therefore we
should accept their leadership. They would certainly not harm their fellow
citizens. It's the imagination of the Muslims that if they accept the
government of the Christians, the Christians would swallow them up. If the
Muslim has iman then they should not fear anything."

They kept explaining to the general public that, "By reaching a compromise
with Ferdinand, Abu Abdullah wanted to save the Muslims from destruction in
the rest of Andalus. Ferdinand has extended a hand of friendship towards us
and Abu Abdullah realizes that if he does not reciprocate then tomorrow
Ferdinand would not treat us well when he is victorious."

Abu Dawood had also reached Loja with the Christian forces. After monitoring
the situation for a few days, he wrote to Ferdinand that this was the right
time to render a decisive blow to Granada. Ferdinand personally came to Loja
and took charge of the troops and after quickly capturing the forts of
Al-Beera and Mashinal, laid a siege on Sakhra. Al-Zeghel left one-third of his
army in Granada and advanced towards Sakhra and encamped a few miles away from
the city. Routine skirmishes took place between the two parties. The citizens
fought from within the confines of the city while Al-Zeghel attacked the
enemies from the rear. Badr Bin Mughira had suddenly started a mass
advancement from the North-east. Ferdinand was compelled to lift the siege of
Sakhra and at the same time Ferdinand received the news that the king of
France was advancing towards Pyrenees with a legion of troops. Ferdinand
removed the siege of Sakhra and ordered ten thousand of his troops to stop the
advance of the mujahideen in the north-east. He left the required number of
troops with Abu Abdullah for the protection of Loja, Al-Beera and Mashinal
while he returned to deal with the threat from the King of France.

To reach a compromise with the King of France, Ferdinand sent a delegation of
priests and made him realize that the war in Granada and Hispania was a war
between the crescent and the cross and a war between two major Christian
powers would benefit the Muslims. The Bishops of Castile and France embraced
each other and compelled the two kings to shake hands with each other. To
become part of the blessing of fighting the Muslims, the King of France gave
two thousand horsemen and twenty ships under Ferdinand's command.

For a long time Ferdinand realized had that Granada's strength cannot be
broken unless Malaga is not captured. Malaga was Granada's most important port
and after capturing it, it would be easy to take over the entire coastal
regions of Granada. This way, apart from the port of Almeria he would be able
to cut-off all the routes between Andalus and Morocco and he would be able to
bring their belief to ashes that the Muslim world was behind them in support.
He was certain that once Malaga was taken away, the Muslims of Granada would
know that they were at the mercy of the Christians. From Malaga he could
subdue the rebellious tribes of Sierra Nevada. After receiving twenty ships
from France his navy had become powerful. He wrote to Abu Abdullah, "My army
would launch a sudden attack on Malaga and because of its importance,
Al-Zeghel would try to reach there. You would be able to capture Granada
without any resistance."

After a few days, Ferdinand's naval fleet had left for Malaga. He too headed
with his army towards Malaga after taking a long route from the southwest. The
naval attack on Malaga was so unprecedented that the Christian troops landed
without any resistance and laid siege on the city.

Al-Zeghel's entire focus was on Loja. When he suddenly received the news of
Malaga's siege he left a handful of troops to guard Granada while he set-off
for Malaga but when he was a station away from Malaga he received the news
that Abu Abdullah was heading towards Granada with 8,000 troops. He hopelessly
let most of the troops head towards Malaga while he returned to Granada. But
before he could reach Granada the group of traitors had already opened the
gates of the city for Abu Abdullah and Abu Abdullah's flag was fluttering over
Al-Hamra. With a dejected heart Al-Zeghel headed for Malaga once again but the
treacherous nephew attacked him from the rear as soon as he found out that his
uncle's troops were few in numbers. Al-Zeghel's soldiers fought bravely but
when they saw that apart from the Christians their swords were also clashing
with their brothers, they could not remain steadfast. After taking a defeat,
Al-Zeghel took shelter in the area of Alpujarras. The next day he received the
news that the rest of his troops have been defeated by Ferdinand and all the
paths leading to Malaga from the coast and land have been closed. After
organizing a small army of the bellicose tribes, Al-Zeghel made Bast his
bastion. In Malaga Al-Zaghairi put up a ferocious fight but after a month the
people became helpless due to a lack of supplies and reinforcements. A few
times, Al-Zeghel tried to advance towards Malaga through the mountains but in
vain due to the presence of a large number Ferdinand's troops in the field.

Even Badr Bin Mughira diverted his attacks towards the southeast instead of
the northeast but the minor losses could not uproot Ferdinand's cowardly
troops and based on previous bad experiences he didn't permit his troops for
an onslaught.

The people of Granada were in a sorry state. People dying of hunger were
willing to lay down their arms but Al-Zaghairi did not loose hope. To the ones
preferring peace, he had just one answer, "The enemy can only enter the city
over my dead body."

When the troops' morale would be low he would raise it by his feverous speech.
But when nothing could be seen on Malaga's sky but darkness, then, like the
city's population there was also a spilt within the army. Some traitors struck
a deal with Ferdinand and opened the city's gates, arrested Al-Zaghairi and
handed him over to Ferdinand.

On Ferdinand's orders, Al-Zaghairi was brutally tortured and killed. After
this the people of Malaga witnessed a reign of cruelty and barbarism that was
beyond their wildest imagination. First being intoxicated by their victory and
then by heavy drinking, Ferdinand's troops played havoc in Malaga. Women were
dragged out of their homes into the market. They were forced to eat the flesh
of swine and drink alcohol and at the point of the sword they were made to
understand that it was an obligation of the conquered to obey every command of
the conqueror. Men who displayed their honor were punished by being burned
alive and when those traitors who betrayed Al-Zaghairi and opened the gates of
the city for the enemy went and complained to Ferdinand, he replied, "Malaga
is the door to Andalus. I want to see it cleansed from the existence of the
enemy. If the treatment of my troops is unbearable for you then you may leave
the city. My ships are ready if anyone of you would like to go to Morocco."

After the fall of Malaga, all the areas under the Sultanate of Granada came
under the hold of the Christians including the nearby cities of the coastal
areas of Malaga in the south.

Al-Zeghel's small sultanate extended from Jean in the north till Almeria in
the south. After Malaga's port was snatched, the port of Almeria became like a
jugular vein for the Muslims. Apart from this Guaz and Beegha were under
Al-Zeghel's control. With respect to its resources, this sultanate was quite
well-off. Alpujarras's valleys were watered by the streams of the snow-tipped
mountains of Mount Sierra Nevada. Here the production of fruits was the
highest in Andalus. In the rest of the region that was mostly mountainous the
people used to keep cattle that was more than their needs and the terrain of
the mountains and forest provided a natural defense for the region.

After a few days of preparations Ferdinand attacked Beegha and laid siege on
the city but the mountain tribes came down and started warring from all sides.
Realizing the significance of Beegha, Badr Bin Mughira gave the border's
security under Mansour Bin Ahmed's command and dashed towards Beegha with two
thousand warriors and in the first attack itself he slaughtered five thousand
of Ferdinand's troops. The following night he attacked from the rear and
Al-Zeghel came out of the city and rendered a surprise blow to the enemy. In
the morning, Ferdinand lifted the siege and returned to Malaga.

After a year of preparations in Malaga, Ferdinand invaded Beegha again but
this time instead of attacking the city, he destroyed all the areas within its
vicinity, looted the cattle of the farmers, and ravaged their crops and
gardens. To prevent any unprecedented attacks from the tribes he setup
checkposts on every road leading to Beegha. The sudden attacks by Badr Bin
Mughira and the tribes proved quite detrimental for Ferdinand but they could
offer no respite to the people of Beegha. After a long siege of six months the
people of Beegha eventually gave in due to intense famine.

After making Beegha his bastion Ferdinand captured Al-Zeghel's forts in  one
after the other.

Bashir Bin Hassan was tying a bandage around Badr Bin Mughira's wounded arm.
Mansour entered the room. Badr Bin Mughira enquired, "Mansour! You have not
left as yet?"

Mansour replied, "I had just stepped out of the fort when I met him."

"Al-Zeghel is here himself?"

"Yes. I have made him sit in the meeting room."

"Who else is with him?"

"Abu Mohsin is with him. They had some soldiers with them too but our men have
stopped them across the bridge."

"I hope they did not complain."

"They were upset at this but I consoled them by saying that this is standard
procedure. Since their visit was unexpected, the soldiers did not have any
special orders."

Badr Bin Mughira said, "Did you tell them that you were going to him with my letter?"

"Yes, I had even presented the letter to him but he returned it to me without
reading it. He said that after traveling such a long distance it would be
better if he spoke to you verbally."

"Didn't you tell them that my reply would be the same even if we met?"

"He is so sad and upset that I did not think it was appropriate to say so."

Badr said, "I wanted to avoid this meeting. Anyways, this is a compulsion but
both of you stay with me. If I don't live upto my obligation then please
correct me."

Later, Badr Bin Mughira, Bashir and Mansour were shaking hands with Al-Zeghel
and Abu Mohsin in a spacious room of the fort. When they sat down on the
chairs after exchanging pleasantries, Al-Zeghel said after pondering for a
while with his bowed down, "You must be knowing why I am here. I couldn't wait
for your reply. The expressions on your faces tell me that you are upset with
me. I have not come here with the intention of clarifying my position. I
regret that the circumstances did not give me a chance to take your advice.
You might have thought that I was being a coward but God is my witness that I
didn't care about saving my life. Even now I don't consider myself among the
living. I have come to tell you that I threw my sword only when both my hands
were cut. Alas! If I only knew that the water of the river cannot be stopped
by dams of sands. My analysis were wrong and an incompetent person like me had
no right to lead the nation and I have nothing but tears of regret in front of
you. I know that you will not forgive me. Trusting Abu Abdullah is such a sin
that I am not ready to forgive even myself for it. My conscious will always
prick me for it I submitted to Ferdinand once I was sure that now any more
sacrifices would be in vain. We have been uprooted and the enemy has
surrounded us from all sides. One part of the nation is content with the
slavery to the enemy and those who were the freedom fighters are also feeling
that their strength to resist has weakened. For me, I had only two options.
One was to accept Ferdinand's slavery and save the rest of the Muslims from
destruction and the second was to continue waging a war whose eventual result
would be nothing but defeat. This way I could have protected my name from
maligning every after my death. But I felt that this act of mine would be like
closing my eyes to the present and future of the Muslims in the conquered
regions of Andalus and Granada. The handful of Muslims who would support me
would be able to remain independent for only a few years but the remaining
thousands of Muslims whose liberty has been snatched would perish in the
enemy's fire of vengeance. Maybe after peace prevails they would be able to
rise again and nature might send a better person for their leadership.
Anyways, as for myself I was sure that if I kept them fighting in the turmoil
then their days of destruction would come even closer. Only a few drops of
blood run in the veins of my nation. Once those are also spent, they too would
have nothing but tears of regret."

Speaking upto this point, Al-Zeghel looked at Badr Bin Mughira. He was quiet.
After thinking for a while, Al-Zeghel said, "But please don't think that I
have lost hope in you and your warriors. You are the last hope for the Muslims
of Granada and Andalus. I am sure that one day this valley would be our
nation's last fort but at the moment it is important to keep the flood of the
Christians away from this valley so that you can have time to prepare. For
this purpose I..."

Al-Zeghel halted at this.

Badr said, "Yes, yes, go on. Why are you silent?"

Al-Zeghel reluctantly said, "I have convinced Ferdinand that it was me alone
who dragged you into the field. Now if he accepts this as your free territory,
then, you would have nothing to do with the people of Granada."

Badr said, "I hope you didn't tell him that I am alive?"

"No. I have convinced him that your successor will follow my instructions."

"So, you have come to us with a message of friendship from Ferdinand."

"For God's sake don't misunderstand my intentions in this regard. My sole
objective is to give you time for preparations. I have brought a letter for
you from Ferdinand."

While saying this Al-Zeghel put his hand in the pocket of his robe, pulled out
a paper and presented it to Badr Bin Mughira.

Badr Bin Mughira took the piece of paper and handed it over to Bashir and
said, "Read it out."

Bashir started reading Ferdinand's letter in a choked voice:

"On the recommendation of Sultan Al-Zeghel, we would like to extend a hand of
friendship to Mansour Bin Ahmed and his comrades. After a long war, we feel
the need for peace and security between the Christians and Muslim for the
benefit of the people of Andalus and we hope that our brave enemy would
support us in establishing peace in the light of our extremely generous offer.
These are our terms and conditions for a compromise:

1. The region between Mount Tadmeer and Al-Shaleer that is known as the Valley
of the Frontier Falcon would be independent and sovereign. And the people of
this region would be given the right to choose Mansour Bin Ahmed or some other
person whom they prefer to be their ruler.

2. Assistance would be provided by us in case of any foreign attack.

In return for this extremely generous offer, we request the following in return:

"Our forts in the northern and eastern borders that are currently under Mansour
Bin Ahmed should be returned to us and we should also get a commitment that
neither Mansour Bin Ahmed nor his successors should ever attack our kingdom's
borders. Apart from this, they should not interfere in the affairs of those
kingdoms of Granada and Andercus whose rulers have become our allies and they
will not support any rebel against us whether Christian or Muslim."

After reading Ferdinand's letter, Bashir looked towards Badr and everyone's
glances also focused on his face. Badr Bin Mughira raised his neck, looked at
his comrades and said, "Mansour! Would you like to say something regarding
this?"

Mansour looked at Bashir then returned his attention back to Badr and said,
"If you mean whether I am ready to carry the coffin of the hopes of the
Andalusian Muslims then my reply is in the negative."

Badr said, "And you, Bashir?"

Bashir replied, "Even if I'm sure that the ship of my nation is sinking, even
then I would not want to take the support of twigs."

Badr Bin Mughira looked at Al-Zeghel and said, "Ferdinand is sure that we are
weary and we desperately need to sleep. Before strangulating us he wants to
make sure that we are asleep and to sing a lullaby to us he has chosen that
very person who violently shook Granada time and again from its sleep of total
obliviousness. His extreme generosity is a sedating potion and to administer
this potion down our throats he has chosen the hands of that very person that
was, until yesterday, the Maître de Arms of Granada. Today the last hope of
Granada is pushing us to the lowest pit of hopelessness. Our lives are very
valuable in the sight of our elders, our benefactors and our leaders. That is
the reason you have come to us. To advise us that we should not let go of life
even if we are without honor and dignity."

"Sultan Al-Zeghel! You say that reaching a compromise with the enemy will give
us time for making preparations but don't you think that the enemy itself
feels the need to make preparations to strike a final blow at us? In the
practical world, the agreement between the strong and weak hold no
significance. Such agreements are made to shackle the weak and give the strong
time to sharpen their swords."

"If we are powerful, we can survive despite the wishes of the enemy and if we
are weak, then the mere expression of good wishes from the enemy are not
enough for our survival. The sword is the only guarantee for our dignity, our
liberty and our survival and our sword will not be put in the scabbard before
we achieve victory or death. Can we trust an enemy that ordered the Muslims to
vacate the coastal areas after they conquered Malaga? Are you here to ask us
to trust the writings of a man whose hands are stained with the blood of our
nation's women and children? Where was the generous and kind-hearted ruler
sleeping when the honor of the Muslim girls was looted in the streets of
Malaga? If you are in the mode of self-deception then for God' sake don't ask
us to be in that mode. You are concerned that our sacrifices will be in vain?
But let me tell you that sacrifice itself is a goal. If fate does not have a
life of dignity for us, then the path to a death of dignity is not closed for
us as yet."

Badr Bin Mughira stood up from his chair in excitement and said, "A nation's
blood does not end by flowing. It only dries up when they accept a life of
indignity. Tell Ferdinand that we know how to pay the price of our freedom. So
far Ferdinand's flood of victories have merely broken dams of sand but heading
to this valley he will have to deal with those rocks that have faced many
storms in the past centuries. I know that our concern has pulled you here. You
don't want us to continue treading a path that has nothing but thorns in it
but these feet have become accustomed to these thorns. This body is not used
to a bed of flowers. If you regret that our lives were wasted under your
leadership, then we are also sorry to see that a person who was used to
staying in residences of marble in Al-Hamra and was used to sleeping on silken
beds had to endure the difficulties of war with us."

"Congratulations to Abu Abdullah for Granada's throne and congratulations to
you for the Sultanate of Andercus. Don't worry about us. We have opened our
eyes in the shades of swords and would eventually sleep in the rain of
arrows."

Those tears that Al-Zeghel tried to suppress flowed out involuntarily. With
shivering lips he said in a voice drenched in sorrow, "Badr! Badr! Stop
striking unnecessary blows at your fallen friend. You won't see me in this
land of embarrassment every again. I'm going to Africa. You don't need a weak
person like me and the rest of the people have contented with Abu Abdullah as
their leader. If the Muslims have a future in Andalus then you are its
custodian. Those people of Andercus who wish to follow your path will come to
you. I have some gold and jewels. I will send the nation's trust to you.
Before leaving I don't want you to misinterpret my tears. They were tears of
regret and Abu Mohsin, your dwelling is also this valley."

Al-Zeghel stood up after saying this much. "Now, I would like to leave."

Badr said, "You are tired. Please rest until tomorrow."

"No. I would like to leave today itself."

In the evening, Badr and some of his comrades were bidding farewell to
Al-Zeghel on a bridge over a stream.
