
<!-- Chapter 5 -->

# Rabia's Anxiety

When Rabia woke up in the morning, her body was aching. She also had a
headache. Light piercing through the windows was indicating that the time to
perform the afternoon prayer was diminishing. She got up from her bed, quickly
performed ablution and after praying, went, once again, into her bed.

A day before, Bashir Bin Hassan had taken-off her bandages and had advised
that the remaining pain in her leg would go away once she starts to walk
around. And that it would do her good if she strolled outside, near the fort.
Walking in fresh air would rejuvenate her feeble body.

After seeing off the coachman, Abu Dawood came straight to the room and said,
"Rabia! You are still asleep? Go out for a stroll with Angela. Maria, you too
go along with them."

When Rabia didn't reply, Angela said, "Maybe Rabia is not feeling well Mother!
Let us go."

Maria said, "We'll see in the evening. I have a headache right now."

Abu Dawood asked Rabia, "What's the matter, Rabia. You're alright, aren't you?"

Without looking at Abu Dawood, Rabia replied in a dismal tone, "I'm fine."

"No, No! Your eyes are red."

"My body is aching."

Abu Dawood felt her pulse and said, "Maybe you have a fever. Let me bring the physician."

Rabia said, "No, no, I'm perfectly fine. No need to call the physician.
Father! I would like that we all leave for Granada immediately."

"But until you're not able to walk about properly, we have to stay here."
Saying this Abu Dawood left the room and after a while returned with Bashir
Bin Hassan.

Bashir looked at Rabia, felt her pulse and said, "I think you were not able to
sleep last night."

A shocked Abu Dawood, Maria and Angela looked at Rabia and understanding the
reason for their concern, she said, "I think I overslept last night. When I
woke up in the morning, my head was spinning."

"It's quite possible that you fell ill because of oversleeping. Nonetheless, I
will send some medication. Do go out for a stroll in the evening. Lying in bed
also has adverse effects on the body."

Abu Dawood took a sigh of relief and said, "My wife's head is also hurting."

After checking Maria's pulse, Bashir said, "Either you have not had much sleep
or you might have overslept like Rabia. If you go out for walks in the morning
and evening, then, you would not have this complain." "No, I really did not
get much to sleep."

Bashir said, "I will send the medication. Whenever you have difficulty
sleeping, just have a tablet."

By evening, Rabia felt better. On Abu Dawood's insistence, she along with
Angela and Maria went out for a stroll. She would still limp while walking.
Outside the fort, Bashir was returning after attending a patient. On seeing
them, he stopped his horse and said, "If you balance your weight on both your
legs, you should be able to walk properly by day after tomorrow. Don't go out
very far today."

Angela said, "Is it dangerous for us to go down the valley?"

Bashir said, "There's no danger for guests here."

Rabia was extremely restless for the next two days. She wanted to caution Badr
Bin Mughira of the approaching danger but she also knew that she won't be able
to do this without putting her father in danger. After pondering and
reflecting hard, she came up with the idea of meeting Badr Bin Mughira. After
enquiring from Bashir Bin Hassan, she found out that he has gone to his
residence in the forest and might not return for the next two days. There were
four days left for Friday and after every prayer she kept supplicating for him
not to return from his residence for a few more days.

For two days, she continued to go with Angela for strolls in the mornings and
evenings. The first morning, Bashir Bin Hassan, who took strolls early in the
morning met them on his way back. Angela saw him and said, "Look! Now there is
no flaw in Rabia's walk."

Bashir replied, "Walking is good for her."

Angela said, "Father was saying that we will be leaving on Saturday."

"Yes! We have requested a new coach to be brought in from Granada."

"Doesn't the solitude here bother you?" Angela said after mustering up some courage.

"In the cities, I do not like crowds of people."

"You take strolls very early in the morning."

"Yes, I'm used to waking up early."

Bashir Bin Hassan said this and walked away while Angela turned around and
looked at him for a few moments. Rabia said, "Let's go, Angela."

Startled, Angela looked at her and said remorsefully, "Don't you think he's an
interesting man."

Rabia replied, "I'll be disappointed if he thinks the same about you. Angela,
your direction in life and his are totally different. They are two parallel
lines that never meet each other."

Trying to conceal her fear in her giggle, Angela said, "Rabia, are you
thinking that I have fallen in love with this physician who is your
brother-in-faith?"

"No, Angela! Love is not your cup of tea. I find relief in the fact that you're
deprived of this holy emotion but it's no use getting tangled in thorns. Some
thorns are very strange. The one entangled in them can go threadbare without
realizing it."

"Rabia! Rabia! You are wrong. I am not deprived of the emotion of love. I will
sacrifice everything for the one I choose to reign over my heart. But he won't
be someone who will not be from my faith, someone who hates the cities. I'm
not that stupid to look for a flame in an iceberg. If I have taken any
interest in Bashir, it's only because he's your physician. But if you mind
this, then, I won't even raise my eyes to see him. And next time I won't even
come out for walks with you."

"No, no, Angela. I was only joking."

Rabia's anxiety grew by the day. Just two days were left for Friday. After
Rabia got up and offered her Fajr prayers, she saw that Angela stood all ready
for the morning stroll after freshening up herself. Every night before
sleeping Maria would promise that she too would come along for strolls but in
the morning when she would be awoken, she would make an excuse of either a
headache or some other pain and would remain lying in bed. However, before
they left, she would always instruct Angela not to wander off very far since
these people were very dangerous.

Today too Rabia and Angela dutifully tried to wake her up but instead of
waking up she tossed to the other side and slept. Angela felt a sigh of
happiness and said, "Let's go, Rabia. Today we will cross the valley and climb
the mountain."

This was the same mountain where Bashir frequented during his walks. After
passing through the dense tress of the valley and crossing the stream, Rabia
could not keep up with Angela's fast pace while climbing the mountain. After
climbing about a third of the mountain she said, "Angela, I'm exhausted. If
you like, you can go all the way up. I'll wait for you over here."

"Very well! I'll be right back." Saying this Angela raced to the top. She had
not seen Bashir on the way and she hoped that he would be at the top of the
mountain. The pace of her heartbeat became faster with each step.

Rabia kept looking at Angela while sitting on a rock. When she became out of
sight, she started to look down at the breathtaking scenery of the valley.
Suddenly, on her right, at a distance, she saw a rider. The horse was pacing
slowly on its own while the rider was singing a song loudly in the Arabic
language. On seeing the rider's white robe, Rabia's heart started throbbing
and after pondering for a while, she started moving towards the valley. She
thought that if the rider reached the banks of the stream, she won't be able
to stop in his way. She covered some distance with normal pace but raced when
she reached near the trees and eventually reached close to the stream. Here
she stood under a tree, near the sides of the tracks. As the rider's voice
became louder and louder, the thumping of her heartbeats increased.

When the rider came very close, Rabia wanted to come out from behind the tree
and stand in the middle of the tracks but she could not gather enough courage
and so she started looking towards the tracks from behind the tree. What she
had thought was indeed correct. The rider was none other than Badr Bin
Mughira. He wore a white turban on his head instead of a helmet.

Despite the fact that the Frontier Falcon was heedless of her presence, Rabia
could not take more than a look at him. For a moment, mixed feelings of
modesty, anxiety and veneration prevented her in coming to any decision.
However, after he passed by, she was stunned by the guilt of being negligent
towards her duty. She said to herself, "Maybe I will never get another chance.
Friday is only two days away."

"Wait!" she said quickly while moving forward onto the tracks.

But her soft voice, dipped in modesty, did not reach Badr Bin Mughira's ears.
He had moved a few meters away. Moments ago the ground that had held Rabia's
feet were now pushing her towards the stream. She advanced towards the stream.
With every step she was gaining speed until she eventually started running.

Please stop! Please stop! Please stop!" Her voice became louder as she gained
speed. The rider turned around, looked and pulled the reins of his horse.
Rabia's face blushed with modesty and once again her feet froze to the ground.

Appearing a bit surprised, Badr said, "You...alone...?"

Rabia couldn't give a reply immediately. Badr pierced his lance in the ground,
got off his horse and after a brief silence said, "You look worried. You
called out to me."

Rabia reluctantly raised her head and looked at him. Finding concern, sympathy
and compassion in Badr's smile, she gradually stepped forwards and said in a
meek voice, "I want to say something to you."

"Please do...!"

For the first time Badr had a close look at her. She was an embodiment of
health, youth, beauty and chastity. And the red and white waves of shyness
apparent of her face could not but impress Badr.

"You wanted to say something to me?" Badr questioned.

Rabia's eyes that harnessed within it seas of love and submission, gradually
started rising up.

She said, "I came out for a stroll with Angela. She has climbed up this mountain."

Badr said, "Don't worry. She won't be in any danger here."

"I'm not worried about her. What I wanted to say is that this fort of yours in
very close to the border. If the Christians find out that you stay here,
then..."

"Don't worry. We know how to protect our guests."

"No. No. I didn't mean that. I...I'm worried about you. You're the last hope
for Muslims of Andalus. If the Christians find out that you stay here, then,
I'm afraid that..."

"Don't worry about me. I have taught the Christians a lesson many times."

"But staying with limited troops in this insecure place could prove to be
dangerous. Your life is very precious. I fear that our servant might disclose
that you stay here instead of the forest."

"But your father was saying that he's a very reliable man?"

Rabia anxiously said, "My father is a very optimistic person. It's possible
that our servant is caught on the way and due to fear or greed tells
everything to them. It is better to be cautious in such affairs."

Rabia's tone sounded more like a plea than advice. A Muslim girl's concern and
compassion was not incredible for Badr. Badr consoled Rabia and said, "This
fort is within the border of Granada and unless they don't formally announce
war against Granada, they won't attack it. And if they find out that I stay
here sometimes, even then they won't take immediate action. And if you are
worried about yourself then I assure you that the blood of the Muslims of
Hispania is not that cold that they wouldn't be able to protect their guests.
My soldiers will guard you all until you reach Granada."

Rabia, appearing anxious, said, "You misunderstood me. I am not worried about
myself at all. I was only thinking about you and not only me but every Muslim
girl in Andalus and Castile prays for the safety of the Frontier Falcon.
You're the last hope of this unfortunate people." Rabia's voice halted and
tears flowed down her beautiful eyes.

Badr Bin Mughira was quite touched and said, "The daughters of the nation
should not express such fears that drive its men in becoming peace lovers. So,
I thank you for your concern." Saying this Badr Bin Mughira placed his foot in
the stirrup of his horse but Rabia quickly said, "Wait!"

Removing his foot from the stirrup, Badr said, "Maybe I was not able to
entirely console you. Look, any attack by the Christians cannot be unexpected
for me. They won't ever find me sleeping at any front. This fort is not as
unsafe as you might think."

Rabia hesitantly said, "Do you believe in dreams?"

"Yes. I won't deny the truth of some dreams. I had a dream about my father once
when I was child and it turned out to be true but after that I have written
the interpretation of all my dreams with my sword. If you have seen a dream
concerning me, then, for that too I will depend entirely on my sword."

Rabia said hopefully, "I have full confidence in your sword. Every Muslim of
Andalus has confidence in your sword and the interpretation of the dream that
I have seen can only be written by your sword. I dreamt that the enemies
suddenly attacked your fort. The number of their troops compared to yours was
far more. In the darkness of the night, I was hearing frightful slogans inside
and outside the fort. I felt as if they had broken the wall of the fort and
entered inside. Because I was scared, I woke up. Maybe this dream is a result
of my imagination but I could not rest without mentioning it to you."

Badr Bin Mughira said, "I'm thankful to you. If your dream is true then,
God-willing, instead of hearing their slogans inside the fort, you will hear
their cries outside the fort."

Rabia said, "Ameen" in a suppressed voice and her sad face shone with happiness.

Badr Bin Mughira said, "For the realization of this dream, I think you might
need to stay here a few more days. I will speak to your father. Maybe he would
agree to postpone the trip for a few more days."

Rabia, feeling the heartbeats of joy, said to herself, "This obligation of
yours might be the realization of some other dream of mine."

While placing his foot in the stirrup, Badr said, "I believe you will wait for
your sister. I'll leave now."

Badr mounted his horse and pulled out his lance. Rabia hesitantly said, "I
fear that you might take things I said as a joke. My stepsister, Angela and my
father too, laugh at things I talk about. For God's sake, don't mention
anything about my dream to them."

Maybe words are not enough to console you." Saying this Badr looked around and
whistled a few times. In response to this, a few guards hidden in the dense
tree nearby, gathered around him.

Badr said to one of them, "Sulaiman! Head towards the forest immediately.
Before evening I want to gather half of my army behind this mountain. None of
the soldiers in the fort should know about their arrival."

On receiving Badr's hand signal the guards disappeared amongst the trees just
as they had appeared. He smiled and looked at Rabia and said, "Are you
satisfied now? Until the time you're in this fort, half of my troops shall be
guarding it."

Rabia impulsively moved forward and held the reins of Badr's horse and said,
"For God's sake, don't think that I fear for myself. My anxiety is only for
you. You are the nation's asset. You are the wealth of the Muslims. I wish I
could do something else besides impressing you with my dream. I wish I was one
of these diehard fighters who guard you. But I'm merely a superstitious girl
who can only offer you dreams and supplications. Rabia's voice dipped. Tears
overflowed from her eyes. For quite some time, it was difficult for Badr Bin
Mughira to decide on what he should say. Despite the simplicity, humbleness
and humility, Rabia's face had such an expression of sobriety, seriousness and
dignity that left Badr Bin Mughira quite impressed. He told her
apologetically, "I'm sorry that my words caused you distress. That wasn't the
intention. I'm thankful to you. Okay, goodbye!"

Rabia left the reins and stood aside. Badr heeled the horse and moved it into
the stream. Looking at him, she repeatedly said, "Goodbye...goodbye!"

After leaving Rabia along the way, when Angela reached the top of the
mountain, she saw Bashir Bin Hassan a few feet away, in front of her, coming
down. She sat down on a rock to catch her breath. When Bashir came close, she
got up while cleaning the sweat on her face with a handkerchief. Suddenly when
Bashir saw her, he froze in his tracks at a short distance. Then, after
pondering a bit he gradually moved towards her.

Bashir said, "You have come alone today?"

Angela replied, "Rabia was with me, but she stayed down. I wanted to reach the
peak of this mountain. I didn't expect to find you here. It was a very
difficult climb."

"You have been very courageous", Bashir said unenthusiastically. Angela could
not help noticing it. So she hesitantly said, "I don't have the courage to go
any further. It's also fortunate that I found you. If you don't mind, will you
accompany me to the peak?"

"Let's go."

"Thank you! I was afraid that I might loose the way on my way back."

"This way is not that complicated", Bashir said carelessly.

Bashir was pacing quite swiftly in front of her and a breathless Angela,
despite her desire, could not speak a word to him.

By the time Angela reached the peak, she was badly gasping for breath. Her
face was drenched with sweat. Bashir Bin Hassan, being a physician of high
morals, turned and had one look at this image of beauty and turned his face
again and looked downwards at the lush green valley.  

Wiping the sweat on her face with a handkerchief and trying to catch her
breath, Angela said, "It seems that you didn't even feel the climb. But my
situation is far worse."

Continuing to look downwards, Bashir said, "I'm used to climbing mountains.
Maybe this is the first time you have tried it."

Angela said, "The valley looks so captivating from here. It's unfortunate
Rabia could not come with me."

"She should not be exerting herself so much at the moment."

Angela said while sitting on a rock, "With your permission, can I rest a bit.
I'm really very tired."

Bashir replied, "Be quick. Your sister must be waiting."

Angela tried to change the topic of the conversation and said, "What a
beautiful sight. Do you come here everyday?"

"Yes, but it's only a coincidence that today I'm returning back from here.
Otherwise, I usually go till the peak of that mountain."

"Maybe this coincidence happened because nature wanted me to reach here under
your guidance."

"You could have reached here without me."

"No, really, I'm saying the truth. I just didn't have the strength. We're
leaving day after tomorrow. Had I not met you, the desire to climb the peak of
this mountain would have remained in my heart."

"It's not that big a desire to cause you grief."

"I will never forget this beautiful scene. I have heard that the Frontier
Falcon's forest has very captivating views too."

"Yes, that area is very beautiful."

"And maybe that is why you don't like to go to the cities."

"A person usually likes a place where he's doing beneficial work."

"I think you will be able to do more beneficial work in cities like Castile,
Seville and Cordova instead of mountains and forests. There the nobles,
governors and even the King would be your appreciators. I hope you won't mind
my saying but you're wasting your talent here. Father says that if you go to
Castile, the King would offer you a great position in the court.

"I'm sure your father would never advise me to go to Castile. I'm much happier
treating an ordinary soldier of Badr Bin Mughira than to sit in your King's
court. Sometimes these people get inflicted with different physical ailments
that can be treated. But your King and nobles are always inflicted with
spiritual and moral diseases."

Angela smiled, looked towards Bashir and said, "Why don't you just say that
you hate Christians."

Being a physician, it is my duty to serve every human being but being a Muslim
my first duty is to support those people in Andalus who are fighting for the
honor and liberty of the Muslims. You find humanity in those senates of
Castile where the chains of slavery are being prepared for Muslims and I find
humanity in these huts whose residents prefer death than slavery to aliens."

Feeling a bit sad, Angela said, "Are you sure you will be able to fight our
Emperor for long?"

"You don't compete only with the desire to win. In some situations, war becomes
a duty for the weak. We are confident that till we are alive, no one can
enslave us. Anyway, let's go now. It's getting late."

Angela said, "I think if you are designated as Castile's Royal Physician,
then, you can please the King and prevent him from attacking the freedom of
the Muslims."

"Freedom has never been won with flattery and blandishment. It has always been
bought with blood." Angela said, "As his physician, you won't be his
blandisher but rather his benefactor."

Sounding a bit bitter, Bashir said, "Now there is only one way we can become a
benefactor to your arrogant King and that is by grabbing the draconian sword
from his hand and when he's at our mercy, we'll forgive his faults, keeping up
the traditions of our ancestors. For the everlasting life of our people, I'd
rather give preference to fighting like an ordinary soldier than begging for a
life that is merely temporary. You are a guest here. You started an argument
unnecessarily. Hispania and Castile's tussle won't be settled by words but
rather by swords."

Bashir gradually started descending from the mountain. Angela got up and
followed him. She repeatedly said to herself, "I wish I hadn't started this
argument."

Both remained silent for a long time but when they came down the mountain
completely and were passing through the trees, Angela hurried forward close to
him and said, "I didn't know that you would get so upset. God knows I'm not
your enemy. No matter what you do, my prayers will always be with you. Please
forgive me."

Bashir turned and looked towards her. Tears were flowing down her eyes.

He felt touched and said, "Silly girl, you are crying?"

"Please forgive me.", she reiterated.

"But I don't understand the reason for these tears. If they convey a message of
friendship from the Christians to the victorious then I'm afraid they are in
vain. And if they are because you think our struggle is useless then too this
message of sympathy is too early. And if you think that Bashir Bin Hassan is
so precious that he won't support his people in the path of life and death,
then too, you're mistaken."

Succumbing to her emotions Angela said, "I am not interested in Christians and
Muslims and their Kings. I only wish you well. I feel bad that my words have
hurt you so much. I am foolish. Just don't give any importance to what I
said."

"Angela! Angela!" It was Rabia's voice.

On Angela's silence, Bashir Bin Hassan answered, "Your sister is over here."
Then he addressed Angela and said, "Come on Angela. Your sister is calling."

Angela started walking in front of Bashir. After a while, Angela, Rabia and
Bashir were walking towards the fort.

After crossing the stream, they met Abu Dawood who addressed Angela and Rabia
and said, "You took very long today."

Rabia said, "Father, today we had decided to climb the mountain. I could not
go much far. Angela went to the top of the mountain all by herself."
