
<!-- Chapter 8 -->

# New Endeavors

After the victory of Sakhra, Abul Hassan started preparing for a decisive war
against the Christians at a massive scale. Those influential chiefs and
leaders of tribes of the sultanate who, so far, had been involved in the
internal squabbles between Arab Berbers and Hispanian Muslims, began uniting
against the common enemy. For the Hispanian and the Berber chiefs, Abul Hassan
had become a Muslim leader instead of being merely a leader. He had raised the
crescent flag against the Christian flag. An influential segment of Islamic
scholars had given this war the status of a jihad. After the victory of
Sakhra, when Abul Hassan returned to Granada, for the first time he felt that
he had become the leader of Granada in the true sense of the word. The people
had laid down flower wreaths in his path from the military headquarters till
Al-Hamra. At night, he ran a glance from the top of the high minaret of the
Al-Hamra palace. The entire city was lit and the people were joyfully raising
slogans of victory in the streets and markets. Abul Hassan looked towards the
sky, then raised his hands and supplicated:

"O Lord! Give strength to my weak hands. Grant me the determination of Tariq
Bin Ziyad and the morale of Moosa Bin Naseer. Grant my people, once more, the
fiery of those mujahideen whose horses drank water from the rivers of France
on one side and the rivers of China from the other. Transform our disunity
into unity. You can change this pile of sand to a cliff. My Lord! Don't
disappoint these people who are so overjoyed by a small victory. I was not
worthy of this task but if you have chosen me for it, then give me courage,
determination and perseverance. And if I'm not able to take back the sultanate
of my ancestors, then give Abu Abdullah the ability to do so. Or else give me
the ability to choose a befitting heir for the Sultanate of Granada."

When Abul Hassan was standing supplicating on the minaret, his Crown Prince,
Prince Abu Abdullah was sitting with his new tutor in one of the chambers of
the palace. In a span of a few days, the student and teacher had come close to
each other and Abu Abdullah's uncle, Al-Zeghel, who was responsible in giving
this position to Abu Dawood, was more than happy to see his unprincipled
nephew dance at his talented teacher's cues and disliked being separated from
him even for a moment. Abu Dawood was cautious by nature. He was aware that
Arab blood ran in his student's veins. Therefore, he did not think it was
appropriate in having to disclose his aims and objectives. Acting as an
informal and casual friend, he kept probing and getting acquainted with Abu
Abdullah's views and in a few days he was able to figure out that he could use
the Crown Prince of Granada as a tool when the time came.

Abu Abdullah was fascinated by Abu Dawood after their first solitary meeting.
He read his palm and pointing to a few lines of his hand said, "O Prince! You
were not born to rule over Granada."

Seeing the disturbance on Abu Abdullah's face, he smiled and said, "For you
these lines point towards Alexander's destiny and Abdul Rehman the Great's
majesty. If my knowledge does not fail me, then, banners of your authority
will flutter from Pyrenees to Gibraltar. The rulers of Morocco and France will
be your vassals.

After looking at his own hands for a while Abu Abdullah said, "But my uncle
calls me an idiot."

"O Prince! There is a time set for a fruit to ripen and for a flower to
blossom. You're near and dear ones will keep saying this until your time to
rise does not come. But they want the best for you and not otherwise. Just
wait for that moment."

From that day onwards Abu Abdullah thought of himself as Alexander and his
teacher as Aristotle. Both waited for that moment according to their own
designs. After a few meetings the teacher became aware of what moment the
student was waiting for. But the student was oblivious of his teacher's
objectives and today when Abu Dawood left his house on receiving a message
from Abu Abdullah, in a glance he judged that his student was engulfed in a
new anxiety.

While getting up to show respect for his teacher, Abu Abdullah ordered a
eunuch to shut the door. The teacher and student then sat on ebony chairs,
cushioned in silk.

"O Prince! I was expecting you to be merrily taking part in raising slogans in
the bazaars of Granada. What is that thought that is disturbing the Crown
Prince of Granada at this time?"

Abu Abdullah said, "Is it also my teacher's order that I should raise slogans
at the victory of Moosa, Al-Zaghairi and Badr Bin Mughira? Aren't my
stepbrothers enough who were walking in front of their horses in the
procession like servants today? All this is happening because they know that I
cannot do this kind of flattery and they want to prove to my father, once
again, that I'm totally incompetent."

Abu Dawood said, "I don't know anything about your stepbrothers but I do know
this much about Al-Zeghel that he is not your ill-wisher and even if he was
your ill-wisher even then you should handle him tactfully. You are the Crown
Prince of Granada and as the Crown Prince it becomes your duty to be friends
with even your worst enemies until you have worn the crown. A king can subdue
his enemies with his sword but a crown prince cannot do this and when there
are other claimants to the throne, he should be extra cautious. If you aim to
chop the heads of your opponents after you become the ruler, then today it is
imperative that you go against your wishes and place flower garlands around
their necks so that their nerves don't become firm against you."

Abu Abdullah said, "You always have a favorable view of my uncle. I don't
think you know that he's after the throne. He has even made my father a toy in
his hands. He knows that I won't become a puppet in his hands. That is why I'm
sure it must be his wish to place one of my stepbrothers on the throne so that
he can rule."

"May the Sultan have a long life but my heart testifies to the fact that he
would handover the crown and throne to a talented son like you in his
lifetime."

Abu Abdullah sighed and said, "In his entire life, I don't know of any
decision that he might have taken without consulting my uncle and my uncle's
advice would never be in my favor."

After pondering for a while with his head bowed, Abu Dawood said, "O Prince!
There was one thing I did not tell you after reading your palm. I was scared."

Abu Abdullah said, "For God's sake do tell me."

Abu Dawood looked around and said, "What I'm afraid of is that if this gets to
a third pair of ears, then, along with you even I would be in trouble."

Abu Abdullah said, "Don't worry. There is no one here to listen to our conversation."

"My knowledge testifies that you will be able to take the throne and crown of
Granada in your father's lifetime without his consent. Destiny will give you a
chance. This decision will be very harsh but you will have to take it. It is
not Abul Hassan's destiny but yours to conquer Andalus."

Overwhelmed by emotions of happiness, fear and anxiety, Abu Abdullah said,
"When will that time come?"

Abu Dawood replied, "Very soon. But remember my advice. Before that time
arrives, it is your duty that your father and uncle should not have any
suspicion about you. Why do you think they had left Al-Zeghel behind?"

Abu Abdullah replied, "I know why. Because they don't have trust in me."

"Then it is your duty to gain back that lost trust again. A lot needs to be
sacrificed for the sake of the crown and throne. And also remember that if for
some reason the Sultan or your uncle become suspicious of you then you will
also loose my support forever."

Abu Abdullah said, "I will follow your advice."

"Then, my first advice to you is that you go to your father. If he has not
slept as yet, then congratulate him on the victory and also tell him that you
deeply regret not having the privilege of taking part in this battle. Then,
first thing tomorrow morning, go and meet all the senior officials of the army
and, if possible, distribute prizes among them. The Sultan will be very happy
at this and some of these people might be useful to you in the future."

"I will go to father right away."

The next day, Abul Hassan said to Al-Zeghel, "I would like to meet the teacher
that you have appointed for Abdullah. He seems to be an intelligent man.
Today, I felt a lot of change in Abu Abdullah's views. He was getting upset
over the fact that I did not take him along with me to the campaign."

Al-Zeghel replied, "Thank God we found such a person."

After the third day of these events, Badr Bin Mughira received the news that
the Christians had restarted incursions along the border. So, he immediately
ordered his troops to make preparations for departure.

Before leaving when he met Abul Hassan, he said, "I first attacked Sakhra so
that the people would awake from their deep sleep. Now the benefit of this
victory is that in a few months, I will be able to prepare them for the
decisive battle. In the meanwhile, stay engaged at your front. I won't call
you except in case of dire need. If you keep up the skirmishes at the border,
then the advantage would be that it will give us more time to prepare and
Ferdinand would also have his attention divided on two fronts."

After meeting Abul Hassan as Badr Bin Mughira was leaving the Al-Hamra Palace,
a slave girl handed him a slip of paper.

When Badr Bin Mughira opened the piece of paper, these words were written on
it: "Congratulations on your victory...Rabia"

For a few moments Badr Bin Mughira felt delightful heartbeats and a familiar
face emerged in front his eyes. Badr Bin Mughira said to the slave girl,
"Please thank her on my behalf and ask her to supplicate for me."

In the evening she learned from her father that the Frontier Falcon had
returned to his habitat.

While Ferdinand was making preparations to avenge the Frontier Falcon, he
received the news that Sakhra had been captured by Abul Hassan. He immediately
ordered all his governors and chiefs to make preparations. His spies,
disguised as Jewish merchants kept him posted of Abul Hassan's objectives. He
had a huge cross installed at the gate of his palace and pledged in front of
Castile's public that he won't rest until he had that cross installed on the
gate of Al-Hamra. Every noble in the kingdom followed his example. Then people
from every corner of the kingdom would come to Castile and would swear not to
sheath their swords until Granada was conquered.

One day a Jew of Granada came to Ferdinand and presented him a letter. After
reading the letter Ferdinand said to the emissary, "You have done us a great
service and if you can take a reply back to Granada then you will be
handsomely rewarded."

The Jew replied, "I will do this service with the utmost pleasure."

Ferdinand said, "If you feel there is danger in carrying a written reply then
we can give you a verbal message tomorrow."

The Jew said, "I don't feel any danger in taking a written reply back. On my
way from Granada I was searched at several checkposts but despite that they
could not find this letter."

Ferdinand said, "You seem to be a clever man but where had you hidden this
letter during the checking?"

The Jew replied, "Abu Dawood had stitched this letter inside my shoe."

"Very well then, meet us tomorrow". Saying this Ferdinand ordered a soldier to
take the Jew to the Royal Guest House.

Once the emissary left, Ferdinand carefully read the letter again and after
pondering, got up and went to the Queen's chamber.

"O Queen! You have lost." he said while sitting next to his wife.

"What do you mean?"

"You had made a bet about Abu Dawood that he would betray us. Here, read this
letter. All your doubts will be cleared." The King presented the letter to the
Queen.

The Queen read the letter and after thinking for a while said, "The content of
this letter suggest that our doubts were baseless but we should not forget
that the writer is Abu Dawood who is quite capable of showing the truth as
false. He has asked us to unexpectedly attack Alhama but I fear that this move
too could have some ulterior motives."

Ferdinand replied, "I have learned a lot about Abul Hassan's intentions and
about his preparations from my spies too. I certainly agree with this
suggestion of Abu Dawood that we should immediately capture any important city
near Granada's border to compensate the loss of Sakhra. This would dampen the
joy and enthusiasm of the Muslims for a while and it would boost the morale of
our troops. In my opinion, if the Governor of Cadiz makes a surprise attack on
them, then, we should be able to capture Alhama as easily as they have
captured Sakhra.

"And what makes you so sure that they would be taken by surprise. Isn't it
possible that on reaching Granada Abu Dawood might have seen his destiny with
the Muslims and might have sent this letter with the knowledge of Abul
Hassan?"

"My heart testifies that your doubts are baseless. But even if this is so, they
will still wait for the reply to this letter to know what our objectives are
while I can take the precaution of making them wait for a reply until the
Governor of Cadiz captures Alhama. Abu Dawood is not wrong in saying that
Alhama is the key to Granada and we will be able to win half the war by
capturing it. I will send a message to the Governor of Cadiz today itself and
I will proceed to Loja. Their entire focus would be on me and Cadiz's army
would get a chance to capture Alhama. I will also give marching orders to the
armies of Cordova and Seville. If we were to take a defeat at a front it
certainly won't be Alhama's.

Spies had informed Abul Hassan that Ferdinand had left Castile with a legion
of his troops. Alongwith this, he also got to know about the troop movement of
the armies of Cordova and Seville. He divided his army into three groups. He
gave the command of one section under the leadership of Al-Zeghel, ordering
him to block the forces advancing from Seville. For the second army, he could
not find a more befitting man than Moosa but on the advice of a few nobles he
left Moosa with Abu Abdullah in Granada and called for Badr Bin Mughira to
lead it.

Badr Bin Mughira reached Granada with more than half of his troops and took
charge of the force that was advancing towards the border of Cordova.

Abul Hassan kept the charge of the remainder of the army in his hand. Before
leaving, he called Abu Abdullah and said, "Son! With the absence of Al-Zeghel
and I, a great responsibility rests with you. According to your age, you are
old enough to take care of the Sultanate's affairs. However, I'm leaving Moosa
behind for your assistance. In my eyes he is no less that Al-Zeghel. Don't
take any step without his advice. If something were to happen to me then
remember that my soul won't rest until you take back the lost Sultanate of
Andalus."

Abu Abdullah said, "It is my misfortune that even at this point in time I do
not have the privilege of being a soldier in your army. However, I will try my
utmost to prove myself worthy to fulfill the responsibility that you have
assigned to me but I feel that you would need an experienced general like
Moosa on every front. It is vital that he stayed with you. You may leave
anybody else for my assistance."

Abul Hassan replied, "You are right but another reason to leave Moosa here is
that he will be able to recruit new soldiers for reinforcement."

After leaving Granada Abul Hassan encamped near bordercity, waiting for
Ferdinand's armies. With him were two brilliant generals of Granada's army,
Al-Zaghairi and Naeem Ridwan, to take Moosa's place.

Two weeks passed and Abul Hassan got to know that Ferdinand's army have halted
at a place across the border. Similar news was received from Al-Zeghel and
Badr Bin Mughira that troops moving from Seville and Cordova have halted near
the border.

But, in the third week he suddenly received the news that the ruler of Cadiz
had immediately advanced his troops and captured Alhamma. With this news he
realized the actual reason why the armies of Castile, Cordova and Seville had
halted across the border. With the news of the victory of Alhama, Abul Hassan
also started receiving reports that the ruler of Cadiz had massacred thousands
of its citizens.

Alhama was the most important fort for the defense of Granada. From there, the
enemy forces could invade Granada anytime. The sounds of "My Alhama" resonated
far and wide in Granada. Everyone was of the opinion that the keys of Granada
have gone into the hands of the enemy.

Abul Hassan realized that now Ferdinand would divert his attention towards
Alhama and attack some other city. Therefore, he sent orders to Al-Zeghel and
Badr Bin Mughira to remain at their fronts and gave half of his troops to
Al-Zaghairi to march towards Alhama.

Al-Zaghairi besieged Alhama and closed all the external supply routes for
reinforcements and supplies. When Ferdinand received the news of the siege, he
ordered his troops to march from all three directions.

The armies of Cordova were the first to clash with Badr Bin Mughira. Instead
of giving them a chance to cross the border, Badr Bin Mughira crossed the
border and attacked them. Compared to the troops of Cordova, the number of his
troops were quite less but his battle tactics were far superior. Instead of
openly displaying the strength of his troops, Badr Bin Mughira was causing
immense damage to Cordova's army by conducting guerilla attacks with his
army's thunder squads. Bands of his cavalry would suddenly appear and then
disappear in front of the enemy's cavalry, leaving the left, right and rear
flanks in total disarray. This feat would be repeated several times a day.  

By now, the soldiers of Cordova had come to know that the general of Granada's
army was the Frontier Falcon. They also knew whether they advanced or
retreated, in both cases their destruction was inevitable. On the other side,
skirmishes had begun between the armies of Al-Zeghel and Seville.

When Ferdinand came to know about the General of the Cordova's army's anguish,
he invaded Loja. Anticipating his move, Abul Hassan reached within the
vicinity of Loja but the spies informed him that Ferdinand's army was far
greater than his expectation. Since Abul Hassan was not expecting any major
reinforcement from Granada, therefore, he called for Al-Zeghel. Al-Zeghel,
too, enquired about the significance of Loja's front but before coming to the
aid of his brother he attacked Seville's army intensely and after causing
severe damage turned towards Loja. At the same time, he sent orders to
Al-Zaghairi that if the armies of Seville were to move towards Alhama, then,
he should stop the siege and come to Loja.

From one side, Al-Zaghairi had damaged the boundary wall of Alhama when the
meek-hearted army of Seville approached. Now he faced a greater challenge than
capturing the city and that was to seek a safe passage for his troops, who
were surrounded by the armies of Seville, who were tightening the noose around
them. Even in a hopeless situation Al-Zaghairi preferred to fight than to lay
down his arms and so he reorganized his troops and charged them into a
direction. Formations of lancers were at the forefront followed by foot
infantry. The lancers broke the siege and cleared the way for the foot
infantry and Al-Zaghairi's troops fought their way out without any loss until
they reached a bridge over a river. However, a unit of the enemy awaited their
arrival on the other side of the bridge. Once again Al-Zaghairi's army was
under assault by the enemy with arrows raining upon them from all directions.
All of a sudden the cry of "Allahu Akbar" was heard from the other side of the
river and within moments some five hundred horsemen appeared from the clouds
of dust and within no time wiped out the force that was blocking Al-Zaghairi's
path on the other side of the bridge.

When Al-Zaghairi's infantry and cavalry reached a secure location to the other
side of the bridge, he learned that his rescuers had come from Granada. When
he requested to meet the General of the troops, a masked horseman came forward
with his horse and said in a commanding voice, "This is no time to talk.
Proceed to Loja immediately."

Amazed after recognizing the voice of the masked man, Al-Zaghairi said, "Only
Moosa Bin Abi Ghassan can talk to me like that and no one else."

The masked man said, "But no one should know that I came here. The Sultan
would be very upset. Don't mention anything about me to him. Leaving Granada
has its own dangers but Abu Abdullah thinks that I'm at the military
headquarters."

Saying this Moosa signaled his comrades, prompted his horse and took-off. The
soldiers saw them disappear in the clouds of dust just as they had appeared.

When Badr Bin Mughira received the news that the rest of Granada's army was
gathering to fight a decisive battle at Loja, he decided to give a final blow
to the army of Cordova and sent across a message to his deputy, Mansour Bin
Ahmed to position himself along with two thousand horsemen behind the army of
Cordova.

Mansour Bin Ahmed ravaged the cities and villages along his path and reached
the rear of the army of Cordova with incredible speed. As soon as Badr Bin
Mughira received his news, he moved his infantry soldiers back a few miles and
ordered his cavalry to attack the enemy's left and right flanks. On seeing the
infantry retreating, the General of the Cordova's army came to the conclusion
that like Al-Zaghairi, the Frontier Falcon too is removing his troops from
this front to take part in the battle at Loja. He had already received orders
from Ferdinand to keep the enemy engaged at this front until the outcome of
Loja's front. So far, he was unaware of Mansour Bin Ahmed's arrival. He
ordered his rear cavalry to pursue the retreating foot infantry but within
this period the infantry archers had positioned themselves behind a trench.

The lancers of Cordova were greeted with a volley of arrows as they approached
the trenches and the only option the General saw was to retreat but by this
time Mansour Bin Ahmed had already attacked from the rear and troops in the
rear flank were pushing the troops in the center, as they took a beating.

With Badr Bin Mughira's troops on the right and left and Mansour Bin Ahmed's
horsemen in the rear, the army of Cordova had been taken into a tight noose.
In front of them was that trench across which the archers were positioned. The
analogy of the army of Cordova was no different than that of a ship in the
sea, whose stormy waves were shoving it towards the rocks.

Amid the confusion, a number of Cordova's soldiers were trampled under the
feet of their horrified horses. Several horsemen fell into the trenches with
their horses. The officers were unaware of their soldiers and the soldiers
were unaware of their officers. The Cordovan army that could have fought
bravely for the hope of victory, became hopeless and lost its morale. Only a
few found a safe passage to escape. By noon, the field was filled with the
corpses of Cordova's soldiers and the remaining few troops had thrown away
their weapons.

At Loja's front, Abul Hassan deployed thirty thousand of his troops in the
face of Ferdinand's army of fifty thousand. For two days, Ferdinand's knights
and Granada's fighters were displaying individual feats of valor. The battle
began when one of Ferdinand's knights, who was covered in metal from head to
toe, galloped forward and stood in the battlefield. He raised his sword. Naeem
Bin Ridwan, who wore an aventail on his head and a light coat-of-mail on his
body, galloped forward.

The swords of both the horse riders clashed. Because of his heavy armor, the
Castilian knight could not display his agility as Naeem Bin Ridwan, however,
his thick armor was causing damage to Naeem's sword repeatedly. After blocking
a few of his strokes on his shield, Naeem gave a profound blow with his sword
on the knight's shoulder. Not much injury was inflicted because of the armor
but his body bent to one side. Without giving him a chance to balance himself,
Naeem struck a few more blows consecutively, one after the other. His horse
jumped and due to the weight of the weapons he could not maintain his balance.
After falling off his horse, he tried to get up but Naeem quickly jumped off
his horse, removed the knight's helmet and chopped his head off. Abul Hassan's
army raised slogans of "Allahu Akbar". When Ferdinand's second fighter came
into the field, Al-Zaghairi got hold of a lance and trotted his horse forward.
Besides a coat-of-mail, the knight also wore an iron shield over his chest.
Both rivals moved towards each other holding their lances. While saving
himself Al-Zaghairi struck with his lance on the knight's chest. The lance
broke as it hit the iron shield. But because of the powerful blow, the
Christian knight fell to the ground and Al-Zaghairi pounced on him from his
horse and finished him off.

Witnessing the fatalities of two of his bravehearts, Ferdinand gave the order
for an all-out attack. An intense battle raged till the evening. By nightfall,
both parties retreated to their encampments.

The next day too, the battle ensued in the same manner. Fighters from both
sides entered the field and competed with each other, displaying their skills
and then, the battle began. Until the evening there was no final outcome. Both
sides had more dead and wounded than the previous day. The third day was
crucial for both armies. But Abul Hassan's concern was greater than his
enemy's. Moosa had already sent a reinforcement of two thousand troops from
Granada but in the past two days, five thousand of his troops had either been
wounded or killed. According to an estimate by Abul Hassan's officers, the
number of soldiers killed and injured was not less than twenty thousand. But
within the past two days they had already received fifteen thousand fresh
troops from different cities of Andalus.

Abul Hassan had already known that Badr Bin Mughira along with his small army
of two thousand was blocking a huge flood of Cordova's battalion. But despite
being aware of this, Abul Hassan's moral did not slump. Every soldier was
there fighting without caring for victory or defeat. They knew very well that
if they showed their backs and ran from the battlefield, the enemy would be
able to reach the walls of Granada within a span of a few days.

On the third day when the two armies came face-to-face with each other, a
knight of the Castilian army, whose entire body was clad in metal armor, came
in the field and invited the other side for a duel. His aventail gave a
resemblance to a bull's face. The weapons he was carrying were so heavy that
his horse's back was slumping. A Berber youth came forward to take up the
challenge but fell-off his horse after being struck by the lance. Then, a
Hispanian Muslim came forward but his sword and lance proved useless against
the knight concealed in metal. Shortly, this knight had also killed his second
opponent and Ferdinand's soldiers were raising slogans in jubilation. The
iron-clad knight raised his sword and made a small round. Then, standing,
facing the Granada army, he waited for his next opponent.

Naeem Bin Ridwan moved forward to seek permission from Abul Hassan but was
interrupted by a horseman who appeared from one side. His sweating horse
showed that he was coming from a far distance. Even his attire was different
from that of Granada's soldiers. He wore a white robe over his body instead of
an armor and wore a turban on his head instead of an aventail. Except for the
eyes, his face was covered with a red veil. Moving forward from the ranks of
the Granada's army, he halted his horse for a moment and sheathed his shining
sword. The onlookers thought that he would attack using a lance but he pierced
it in the ground too. Spectators on both sides were perplexed with his moves.

Suddenly, the masked man kicked forward his horse. The Christian, iron-clad
knight charged forward brandishing his lance towards him but he dodged him and
moved forward. After making a small round with his agile horse, the masked man
returned towards his opponent. Moments before the people who saw him empty
handed now saw him with a rope. Before the iron-clad knight could turn around
to face him, he dashed forward with lightning speed and placed a noose around
his neck.

This knight of Hispania, who was second to none in strength and bravery, who
was loaded onto the horse with great difficulty by four men because of the
heavy weapons, fell off his horse like a boulder. The other end of the rope
was attack to the saddle of the masked man's horse. Granada's army laughed at
the helplessness of Castile's iron man. The masked man quickly dragged him and
after placing him at Abul Hassan's feet, took off his mask and said, "I bring
you the glad tidings of victory at the Cordova front."

Abul Hassan cried out joyfully, "Badr! I'm sure the message that you have
brought is definitely good but compared to the victory my joy is more because
of your arrival. I was waiting for some unprecedented support. How many of the
troops could make it here?"

"Only five hundred soldiers were lost but they were immediately replenished by
two thousand. Mansoor has also arrived."

But suddenly Abul Hassan's face showed signs of concern. He said, "But why
didn't you bring the army? Today is the decisive day."

Badr replied, "Don't worry. They will arrive shortly."

While raising the cry of "Allahu Akbar", Al-Zeghel said, "O Muslims! Today is
a blessed day for you. The army of Cordova has fled the battlefield and your
Frontier Falcon has come here to help you."

The soldiers raised slogans in jubilation as soon as they heard the news. Badr
said to Al-Zeghel, "Forgive me but you have not conveyed the news completely.
We did not give the army of Cordova an opportunity to flee. Almost all of it
is lying in the field. Only five or six hundred soldiers might have escaped."

Naeem raised the slogan of "Allahu Akbar", fixed the reins of his horse and
said, "Owing to the happiness of the victory, I pledge to put fifteen of
Castile's horsemen to death but I would like to use your lance for good luck."
Saying this he handed over his lance to him and moved forward and grabbed Badr
Bin Mughira's lance that was still pierced into the ground.

Four of Ferdinand's knights, who came one after the other for a duel faced
death at the hands of Naeem. After the fatality of the last knight, Ferdinand
gave the order of an all-out attack.

By noon, when the battle was at its thickest, Mansour Bin Ahmed arrived with
Badr's army. By afternoon, Ferdinand's army started to show signs of defeat.

Naeem had already condemned fourteen men to death and before he could fulfill
his pledge of killing fifteen men, someone's lance pierced into his chest. He
was going to fall but Badr Bin Mughira placed a hand on his back and made him
sit in front of him. Badr Bin Mughira wanted to take him out of the
battlefield to the camp for the wounded but Naeem said, "Badr, I know my time
has come but I have not fulfilled my pledge. I have killed fourteen of the
enemy's soldiers. Now only one remains. Press my wound and stop the bleeding
from it. Give me your lance and take me close to the enemy. Let me fulfill my
oath. Then, you can take me anywhere you want. Badr! This is a request."

Badr was more than moved. He handed over his lance to him and placed his hand
over the bleeding wound. Then, he turned the direction of his horse towards
the enemy but when they had approached close to one of the enemy's cavalry,
Badr realized that Naeem's grip on the lance was loosening. To straighten the
lance, Badr took Naeem's hand in his and said, "Beware! This is your fifteenth
target."

Naeem, who was almost subconscious said, "Badr! Hold me close to you. If only
I could fulfill my pledge."

"You have already fulfilled your pledge." Saying this Badr Bin Mughira landed
his lance into the chest of a horseman who had approached for a duel. The
Christian horseman fell off his horse but at the same time Naeem's head
lowered in a state of becoming unconscious. Badr dashed his horse towards the
tents of the wounded. A few young men took Naeem Bin Ridwan inside after
taking him off the horse.  

Badr Bin Mughira jumped off his horse and entered the tent. Bashir Bin Hassan
was busy dressing the injured but he immediately turned his attention towards
Naeem.

Badr said, "Bashir, try to save him."

After examining his pulse Bashir Bin Hassan quickly opened his armor and after
reexamining his pulse, looked towards Badr and shook his head.

Badr said in a chocked voice, "Can't you do something?"

Bashir replied, "After such a wound, his being alive even for a few moments is
no less that a miracle. Looks as if some determination to complete a task is
preventing the hand of death. He is gaining consciousness."

"If he becomes conscious tell him that he has fulfilled his pledge." Saying
this Badr Bin Mughira dashed out of the tent, jumped and mounted his horse.

Moments later, on seeing traces of defeat in Ferdinand's army, Badr Bin
Mughira gathered the best trained horsemen and ordered them to get ready for a
pursuit.

A little before evening, Ferdinand's army that had piles of dead bodies lying
in the field started fleeing. When soldiers were raising slogans of victory
around Abul Hassan, he dismounted his horse and prostrated. When he rose his
eyes were filled with tears of gratitude. Abul Hassan looked here and there
and then said, "Where is our Frontier Falcon?"

Al-Zeghel replied, "He has taken-off with his warriors."

"Where?"

"To give a chase to the fleeing army."

"We had asked not to. The soldiers are very exhausted."

"But he asked me to convey his apologies to you. He does not believe in
half-baked victories. However, while showing respect he did not take any
soldier of Granada along with him."

Abul Hassan said, "You have misunderstood us. By God, had he taken my entire
army I would not have worried that much. I feel that the loss of even one of
his men can't be compensated."

Al-Zeghel said, "Don't worry. He knows his job well. He attacks his opponents
like a lion and pounces on the retreaters like a falcon."

Abul Hassan said, "We want to hear the entire details of the victory at
Cordova's front. Abbas, you were with him? Do you think he had exaggerated
just to raise the morale of the army?"

Abbas was one of the commanders in the army of Granada. He said, "These events
were such that they could only be believed by the eyes that have witnessed
them but the ears might find them incredible to believe." Then, Abbas narrated
the entire details of the battle. When he mentioned the feats of Mansour Bin
Ahmed, Abul Hassan said, "Had I known that Badr Bin Mughira's quiver possessed
such arrows, then, instead of now, I would have declared war a few years
earlier."

After resting for a night, the exhausted soldiers woke up at the sound of the
Muazzin's Aathaan at dawn. Abul Hassan had taken a good sleep after a long
time. When he came out of his tent for prayers, his first question to the
guards was, "Has Badr Bin Mughira arrived as yet?"

The guards responded in the negative.

On Abul Hassan's motion, supplications were offered after prayers for the
safety of Badr Bin Mughira and his comrades. By afternoon, Abul Hassan's
concern had transformed to perplexity. He dispatched a group of horsemen to
know the whereabouts of Badr Bin Mughira and his comrades while he along with
his generals stood on a cliff looking out for him.

Suddenly an officer, pointing in a direction said, "Look over there!"

Abul Hassan's heart started throbbing with joy. Rising clouds of dust could be
seen on the horizon.

Abul Hassan ordered a few horsemen to head in that direction.

They returned after a while giving the news of the Frontier Falcon's return.

Al-Zeghel said, "Listen to another good news from me."

Abul Hassan said, "And what is that?"

Al-Zeghel replied, "The Frontier Falcon is bringing a huge supply of booty
along with him."

On Abul Hassan's enquiry, the horsemen confirmed the fact that Badr Bin
Mughira is herding along a large stock of cattle. Besides goats and sheep
there were several horses and mules loaded with grain.
