
# The Last Arrow in the Quiver of the Nation

In a valley of the Sierra Nevada Mountains, apart from the border army, all
those leaders of the mountain tribes were present who had taken the Valley of
the Falcons to be their last bastion, after the snatching away of Granada.
Standing on a rock, Badr bin Mughira was making a speech in front of them:

"My dear friends and elders! And my comrades! The enemy is charging at us from
all sides. To defeat us, the enemy has utilized all its might. The situation we
are facing is not hidden from you. In such circumstances, I can only make one
promise to you and that is that if you cannot obtain a life of dignity and
freedom even then the door of a death of honor is not closed for you. If you
have made me your leader, then, my message to you is that your destiny only has
a life of liberty or a death of dignity. Not a life of slavery and a death of
indignity.

This is the law of nature. Whoever is born in this world eventually has to die
one day. If the culmination of life is death, then what difference does it make
if we live for a moment or live for a century? The only question the world asks
the grave of the deceased is how eminently you lived and how honorable you died.
I am proud of the fact that when I see the graves of my ancestors, then, I don't
have to bow my head down in regret. History is a witness that they had never
left the hem of honor to grab the hem of a life of humiliation. They never
strayed away from the path of a death of dignity to knock on the door of a life
of humiliation and like my ancestor, I too, would not stand that the coming
generations look at my grave with scorn. On the Day of Judgment, I would like to
be raised with that group which gave up its life fighting for truth and
humanity. I would dislike to be raised with those people who turned their faces
away from truth and fidelity for a life of humiliation for the sake of a few
days and left the curse of slavery for their coming generations. A believer can
give his life for the truth. He considers it a disgrace to turn his face away
from the life of truth.

We are very few in numbers. Our resources are limited but turn the pages of your
previous history and remember that day when group of a handful of faithfuls,
with stones tied to their stomach, obliterated the might of Caesar and Kisra.
Recall that day when Tariq bin Ziyad had burned his ship at the shore of Andalus
and gave the message to his diehard fighters that the feet of the Muslims are
for marching forward not stepping backwards.

Our war is a revolt of humanity against savagery and barbarism. This is a war of
principles. Even if we die fighting, our mission will live on. In every period,
humanity will raise its voice against savagery and barbarism. In every period
one group or another of justice-seekers will be unsheathing their swords for the
purpose of this great mission. This mission will remain as long as humanity
lives and until this mission lives, we will remain alive. The historians of
Andalus will not ignore the names of the torchbearers of humanity. Time cannot
wipe away those writings from the face of the earth that the martyrs of a nation
write with their blood.

The news coming about Granada are very tragic. Muslims are being forced, at the
point of the sword, to leave Islam. Hands of tyranny, savagery and brutality are
pursuing them from every direction. The lives of the Muslims are not safe in the
markets and the honor of their womenfolk is not safe in their homes. Now the
interpretation of the words of the treaty have changed that the people of
Granada thought to be a guarantee for their honor and survival. The people who
had refused to raise their swords for the sake of a correct principle are now
compelled to accept the wrong decision of the enemy. Those people who had
hesitated in spending their blood for the sake of their honor and dignity are
now writing the last chapter of their history with tears of helplessness. They
gave priority to the chains of slavery over the crown of liberty. They had
thought that they would be able to gain the hundreds of rewards of life by
merely carrying the simple burden of slavery but now the door of the blessings
of life have been closed for them and the burden of slavery is increasing by the
day. Their bones are being ground under this burden but they cannot protest.
Some among them believed that they would rid themselves of these pains and
tortures once they became Christians but now they are feeling that there is a
huge difference between a slave Christian and a ruling Christian.

My friends! Until I am alive and until you are with me, I promise that the
history of Granada will not be repeated in this valley. We will fight. We will
fight until our last breath. Instead of witnessing the tears of our
helplessness, the dust of Andalus would be watered with our blood."

Seven years had passed since the Christians captured Granada. Apart from a small
mountainous region in the south east, the rest of Spain was under their
dominance.

When the people of Granada were fighting their war of independence, the Muslims
in Cordova, Seville, Toledo and the rest of Andalus thought that they were being
subject to the oppression by their Christian rulers because of the war of
Granada. They thought that if the Muslims of Granada lay their arms down, the
Christians would not oppress them. A new era of peace and religious tolerance
would begin in Spain. However, when they got the news that the people of Granada
had laid their arms down they took part with the Christians in the celebration
of victory. Gathering at the gates of their Christian rulers, they raised
slogans of victory. Their religious leaders announced that the victory of
Granada was not only a victory for the Christians but a victory for all of us.
They accused Badr and his muj훮hid카n, who were still fighting a war of
independence from the mountains and forests, of being traitors to the country.

But in a span of seven years they found out that in the mill of oppression,
Granada was such a hard rock that it was acting as a separator between the two
slabs of the mill and once this rock was removed both slabs had joined each
other. After removing the last rock in its path, this storm of savagery and
brutality that was confined, until this period, to the boundaries of Granada was
now moving in every direction in pursuit of the Muslims. Those Muslims of
Andalus who could not support the people of Granada for victory, became an equal
partner with them in the share of humiliation, disgrace and oppression. Hands of
brutality were ripping away the hem of humanity in every town and in every city.

The Christian government made the announcement that now there were only three
options for the Muslims of Spain. To leave Islam or leave the country or death.
Those who accepted Christianity could not obtain an equal status with the
Christians. The rulers used to treat them with scorn. They used to suspect their
intentions. They used to be accused of offering the Muslim prayers in secret.
And that they spoke Arabic in their homes. That they prayed for the victory of
rebels of the mountain tribes. Normally, the one accused of these crimes was
punished with lashes. Those Muslims who adamantly stuck to their religion were
thought to deserve the worst of punishments. They would be scarred with hot iron
bars. They would be pulled on wheels and burned alive at the gates of the
mosques. In such circumstances, thousands of Muslims had migrated to Morocco.
Convoys from the north would head towards the ports in the south. Those people
who would survive the loot and plunder of the journey and reach the shore would
have to offer a heavy payment to the ships in order to reach Morocco. Although
in the spirit of the treaty the Christian government was responsible of
delivering the Muslims, who wished to migrate from Spain, to the shore of Africa
at its own expense. And personally, Ferdinand did not want the immigrants to
face any harshness but like the rest of the conditions of the treaty, the
officers of the government were not ready to give any importance to this
condition of the treaty too. The Muslim rulers of northern Africa had dedicated
all their ships to evacuate the refugees from Spain but a certain period of time
was required to evacuate the thousands of Muslims.

Frustrated by the barbaric atrocities of the Christian government, the people of
Granada revolted but within a few days, the government massacred thousands of
Muslims within a span of a few days and quelled the revolt.

When the banners of freedom were still fluttering in the mountains and forests
of the South-east, Ferdinand dispatched many mission for the suppression of Badr
bin Mughira but had to face humiliation every time. The number of muj훮hid카n in
the Valley of the Falcons was diminishing every single day. Dejected, many of
his comrades were emigrating but there was no relent in his determination and
liberty.

In the third part of the night, Rabia suddenly woke up from her deep sleep. A
torch was burning in her room and Badr bin Mughira, clad in armor, was standing
and staring at her, standing close by.

While sitting-up, Rabia said, "When did you arrive?"

"I had just arrived and am leaving right away."

Rabia started looking at her husband with answer-seeking glances. Badr bin
Mughira said, "Rabia! God has granted us victory at the northern front. We have
pushed the enemy thirty miles away but as soon as I reached here I got news from
Mansoor that a legion of the enemy has attacked from the west. I am going there
now. God-willing, I will be able to sleep restfully for several nights after
this victory. How is Yusuf?"

Rabia replied, "Yusuf is fine now. His fever subsided day before yesterday. I
can wake him up if you say so."

"No, let him sleep. He will insist on coming along with me. How is Zubaida?"

"Zubaida is absolutely fine. For the sake of listening to stories, she just
dozes off in Yusuf's room. Where is Bashir?"

Badr bin Mughira replied, "He's bringing the wounded ones along with him.
Hopefully, he will reach here by tomorrow. This time, two hundred of our men
were injured and fifty muj훮hid카n were martyred in the battle while more than
three thousand enemy soldiers were condemned to death."

Rabia was looking at her husband silently. The noise of the soldiers gathered
outside the fort could be heard. Suddenly, the door of the adjacent room opened
and a seven-year old boy appeared wiping his eyes. He ran and embraced Badr bin
Mughira.

Badr bin Mughira picked him up and hugged him and said as he kissed his
forehead, "Yusuf, my son, you were awake?"

Yusuf replied, "Zubaida woke me up. You are leaving again? I will definitely
come along with you."

"No, son! You are still very small."

"You always say that. Ask Zubaida. Just today I threw her doll in the air and
struck it with an arrow. She said 'now you have grown up. Now you can go for
_jih훮d_.'"

"No, son! Your little hands are still not capable of handling a sword and lance.
You still play with a toy bow. When you will be able to shoot an arrow with a
heavy bow, I will take you along with me. At the moment you should stay with
your mother."

"But father, wouldn't this war end by the time I grow up?"

"The war between Islam and infidelity never ends, son! This war will go on even
if one Muslim is alive."

Zubaida, whose age was six years, was listening to their conversation, standing
behind the door. Finally, she reluctantly entered into the room. Badr bin
Mughira put Yusuf down and hugged her. Zubaida said, "Why didn't my dear father
come?"

"Daughter! He will be here tomorrow."

Yusuf was Badr bin Mughira's son and Zubaida was Bashir bin Hassan's daughter.
After talking to the children for a while, Badr bin Mughira left them in the
other room and they reluctantly laid down into their respective beds.  

At the time of departure, Rabia and Badr stood in front of each other. The wife
of the mujahid had become accustomed to bidding farewell to her husband without
tears and sobs.

Badr said farewell but someone knocked the door that opened toward the verandah
and cried, "Rabia! Rabia!"

Recognizing the voice, Rabia replied, "Come in, Angela!"

Angela opened the door and entered in the room and started looking at them with
frightened glances.

Badr said, "Angela, Bashir will reach here tomorrow. He is bringing the injured
men along with him."

Taking a sigh of relief, Angela said, "I had woken up after hearing the noise of
the soldiers downstairs. It seems that you are leaving again somewhere."

"Yes. I am leaving for the western front. I have asked Bashir to stay here for
the sake of taking care of the wounded."

Badr bin Mughira looked at Rabia, bid her farewell and taking quick steps left
the room.

After a while, Rabia and Angela were looking out of the window. The army of the
muj훮hid카n left the fort and had disappeared into the forest but the galloping
of the horses could still be heard. The galloping subsided gradually and finally
vanished in thin air. Rabia and Angela were now looking at each other instead of
peeping outside.

In the adjacent room their children, Yusuf and Zubaida, also left their beds and
stood in front of the window. Since the very early years up until now, the sound
that their ears had heard with the utmost interest was the sound of galloping
horses either leaving the fort or coming towards it.

Some rooms of the fort were filled with injured soldiers. Angela and Rabia, who
had learned to dispense first aid, were helping the physicians and surgeons.
They had spent the last few days in extreme discomfort. The number of injured
coming from the western front was increasing by the day. Apart from this fort,
another fort that was a few miles away from this one, had also been prepared to
treat the injured, therefore, Bashir bin Hassan had to go there too once a day.
Alarming news was being received everyday about the war. The muj훮hid카n had
pushed the enemy back several times but with every defeat the enemy was bringing
fresh troops into the field. This was the first battle of the Frontier Falcon in
which the number of the martyrs had reached to around one thousand.

One day, early in the morning, a messenger coming from the battlefront and gave
the good news to Bashir bin Hassan that the mujhahideen are pursuing Ferdinand's
armies after giving them a defeat. Drums of victory were played in the fort. The
ears of the people living in nearby settlements and military checkposts were
familiar with the meaning of this beat and in reply to this they too began
playing the drums in their respective areas. Within moments, the sound of drums
could be heard in the Valley of the Falcons, from one end to the other. In every
settlement, the slogan of "Allahu Akbar" was on the tongue of every child,
elderly and woman. Those people who were apprehensive about the outcome of the
battle after hearing the news of the daily increase in the number of the martyrs
and injured, were now offering tears of gratitude to the Supreme Lord.

Some of the injured came out of their rooms as soon as they heard the news of
the victory and those injured who weren't able to walk got up and sat down. The
blood of life was running on the withered faces. Frightened glances were now
being raised towards the sky with pride and arrogance. The guards of the fort
were embracing the injured muj훮hid카n. Standing in the gallery of the upper
story, Rabia and Angela, along with their minor children, were listening to the
enthusiastic slogans of the muj훮hid카n.

After a while the people from nearby settlements were heading towards this fort
to get the details of the victory. The crowd of these people stayed until the
evening. The people of the settlement kept waiting for their revered leader for
a long time but by nightfall when there was no news of Badr bin Mughira's
arrival, they started heading towards their homes.

After Isha prayers as Bashir bin Hassan was heading towards the room of the
injured people after leaving the mosque, he heard the sound of galloping of a
few horses outside the fort. Bashir stopped and started looking towards the gate
of the fort. The guard opened the gate and four horsemen entered inside. One of
the horsemen stopped and addressed the guard, "Where is Bashir bin Hassan?"

Recognizing the voice of the horseman, Bashir bin Hassan stepped forward and
said, "Abu Mohsin! I am over here."

Abu Mohsin said, "I have come to take you along. Please get ready quickly. Badr
is injured."

Bashir worriedly enquired, "Badr is injured? Where is he?"

"He had fallen unconscious at a distance of about eight miles from here. That is
why we could not bring him here. He is in the settlement of the Berbers, near
the bridge of the river."

"I will be right back." Saying this Bashir ran to fetch his bag of medicines and
Abu Mohsin asked the soldiers who were gathering around him to put reins on
fresh horses.

Badr bin Mughira was lying on a bed in the house of a chief of the settlement.
While lying on the bed he had fainted three times. Some of Mansour bin Ahmed's
men were standing close to his bed. Two of them were also the physicians who had
come with Badr from the battlefield.

The ones who were stopped from entering the room were in the courtyard, weeping
and praying for their revered leader.

There were seven wounds on Badr bin Mughira's body. Even in this injured state
he had pursued the fleeing enemy for several miles and had lost a lot of blood.

The people were very anxiously waiting for Bashir bin Hassan. Badr bin Mughira
asked for water after gaining consciousness for the fourth time. Mansoor
personally supported him with his hand and assisted him in drinking water. After
drinking a few drops of water, Badr said in a feeble voice, "Recite the Quran to
me."

Someone with a beautiful voice started the recitation of the Quran Kareem. Being
touch by it, the mujahid closed his eyes. A physician stepped forward and tried
to feel his pulse but Badr bin Mughira said while smiling, "I am not unconscious
now. This sound wakes me up. It doesn't make me go to sleep."

Galloping of horses could be heard from a distance and after a while Bashir bin
Hassan entered into the room, walking briskly. The people moved here and there.
Cheerfulness suddenly appeared on Badr's withered face as soon as he saw Bashir.
Bashir stepped forward and placed his hand on the pulse.

Badr welcomed his physician with a slight smile and after looking towards the
door for a while, his searching glances became focused on Bashir's face.

Comprehending what he meant, Bashir said, "They are coming with Abu Mohsin. They
will reach here shortly."

Badr closed his eyes. Apart from Mansoor and two physicians, Bashir asked the
rest to leave the room. When they had left, he turned his attention to the
physicians and said, "He is fainting again. It seems that you delayed in
stopping the bleeding."

One of the physicians replied, "Even after being injured he had pursued the
enemy for a long distance. Therefore, we could not give him first aid on time."

Bashir removed a bottle from his bag and looked at Mansoor after pouring out the
medicine in a small cup. Mansoor raised Badr's head with his hands. While
groaning, Badr opened his eyes. Placing the cup of medicine near his mouth,
Bashir said, "Please drink it."

Badr closed his eyes after drinking the medicine. Mansoor gently placed his head
on the pillow. On Bashir's cue, a physician placed the candle-stand on Badr's
bedside. After taking a close look at Badr's face, Bashir said, "He has been
injured with some poisoned weapon. I would like to take a look at all the
wounds."

Bashir bin Hassan's comrades were now opening the bandages of one wound after
the other while he was busy in placing fresh swabs over each wound and tying
them up with new bandages. He had still not finished doing this when he heard
the sound of galloping horses outside. Bashir looked at Mansoor and said, "Maybe
Abu Mohsin has arrived with Rabia and Angela. Go out and ask them to wait in the
other room. I will call them in after a little while."

Mansoor went out.

Rabia and Angela were standing in the other room of the house. The women and
girls of the settlement were gathered around them. Everyone had tears in their
eyes and prayers on their lips.

After a while, the door of the other room opened and while peeping inside,
Bashir gestured with his hand to Rabia and Angela and they went into the other
room. Bashir closed the door again. Now, apart from Bashir, Rabia and Angela,
there was no one else in Badr bin Mughira' room. The three of them were standing
around the bed.

Placing his hand on Badr's pulse, Bashir said, "I had made him unconscious to
put the bandages on his wounds. Now I have already given him the medicine to
make him conscious and its effect is taking place."

Rabia was looking at her husband silently. That sense that is tied to the heart
had already informed her of her fate. Despite taking the support of hopes, her
heart was sinking.

Badr opened his eyes after groaning a few times and after looking at Rabia and
Angela, he said, "Yusuf and Zubaida did not come?"

Rabia said, "I didn't think it was appropriate to bring them here at this time.
May God give you health. They will be here in the morning."

Bashir was pouring out a medicine in a small cup from another bottle he had
taken out of his bag. Badr said in a feeble voice, "Bashir! There is no need for
this now. My destination has arrived."

Bashir said, "You will be fine, God-willing. Here, have it."

"I know my physician is very stubborn." Saying this Badr opened his mouth while
lying down. After making him drink the medicine, he gestured with his hand to
Angela and both of them left to the other room.

On Badr bin Mughira's cue, Rabia sat beside him. Taking her hand into his, Badr
said, "Rabia! I had seen you smile in front of the stack of fire. But today you
are sad. I did not do anything that was below the dignity of your husband. I did
not take any wound on my back. You won't have to be ashamed because of me on the
Day of Judgment."

A voice drenched in pain came out of Rabia's mouth, "My master! Don't say that.
I am proud of you." Saying these words, the tears that she was fighting back for
so long, eventually flowed over.

Badr said, "I have explained a few things about your future to Mansoor. He will
take you to Morocco. The enemy will not sit idle for long after this defeat.
They might attack with all their strength after the winters are over. In such
circumstances, maybe the muj훮hid카n would have to push back and fight a
guerrilla war in the difficult terrain of the mountains. In such a war,
protecting the women and children becomes quite an issue. Therefore, I have
asked Mansoor to take all the women and children to Morocco."

Rabia said, "No, I will not immigrate. I am sure God will cure you but if God
does not desire this then the thorns of this land where your blood has flowed is
dearer to me than the flowers of Morocco."

While groaning, Badr closed his eyes for a while and looked at Rabia and said,
""Rabia! It was for a purpose that I had asked my comrades to sacrifice but
after me I realize that the biggest issue for my comrades will be the protection
of my wife and son. Instead of fighting in the mountains and forests they will
give up their lives in front of the door of my house. They will do that even if
you ask them not to but once they are satisfied with your safety, they will be
able to continue this war, with total concentration, for the purpose of which I
had raised the sword. If you want, you can even do a lot for them once you reach
Morocco. To evacuate the women and children from here we need as many ships as
they can send from Morocco. Apart from this, you will be able to incline the
people of Morocco to help the refugee women and children. I am sure the emirs
and Sultans of Morocco will readily answer your call. Rabia, even if you won't
be able to send some army from there for their assistance even then it will be
enough from your side if you can take the orphans and wives of those friends of
mine, who have been martyred in the past battles, along with you to some safe
place. Do their upbringing. Make these orphaned children capable enough so that
they grow up and are able to do _jih훮d_. It is possible that a Tariq or Abdul
Rahman would come out of them."

Rabia said, "I will obey your orders."

"This is my wish not an order."

"You wish will be fulfilled."

"Make Yusuf capable enough so that he can make his ancestors proud."

Rabia said tearfully, "Yusuf won't put a stain on your name but..." Badr asked,
"But what?"

"Yusuf needs the shade of his father for a few years. I'm sure that God won't
deprive him of your shade. You will be healthy. You will live. The nation needs
you." Rabia was crying terribly.

Bashir bin Hassan and Angela entered into the room. Wiping her tears Rabia stood
up and said, "Please forgive me." Badr closed his eyes after a dejected smile.

Badr fainted several times until morning. Thousands of people from around the
vicinity of the settlement were gathered around this house. Yusuf and Zubaida
also arrived with the caravan of the soldiers.

A little after sunrise, Badr bin Mughira closed his eyes after having a last
look at his well-wishers and said in a feeble voice, "Mansoor, I handover my
unfinished work to you. Keep the attention of the enemy diverted towards you
until the Muslims in the rest of country do not reach Morocco. If you lay your
arms down the enemy will feel secure from all sides and then become busy in
finishing the Muslims will all its might. Bashir! I handover you the job of
finding a refuge in Morocco for the orphans and widows from this place. You will
also be needed over here but that work is very important. Abu Mohsin, I am sure
in your friendship, Mansoor will not feel that he has been left all alone after
me. My time has arrived. I can see my destination. We belong to Allah and to Him
is our return."

After repeating the last words a few times, Badr bin Mughira recited the
Kalima-e-Tayyiba several times. His voice started becoming weaker till a point
where his lips were moving but his voice could not be heard. The well-wishers
thought that he was sleeping. The physicians thought that he had fainted.

Bashir bin Hassan placed his hands on Badr's pulse for the last time. Then Badr
opened his eyes and took a look and then bowed his head after saying, "We belong
to Allah and to Him is our return."

After two months some boats which had women and children riding on them was
heading from the shore of Andalus to Morocco. Angela, Rabia, Zubaida and Yusuf
were with Bashir bin Hassan on one of the boats.

The sun was appearing from the eastern horizon. This was that very sun that had
witnessed the first ship of the Conquerors of Islam at the shores of Andalus.
This is that very sun had seen, with wonder and amazement, the spectacular rise
of Muslim Andalus for close to eight hundred years. This was that very sky on
whose wide chest the legends of prestige and majesty of the successors of Tariq
and Abdul Rahman were carved. This was that very sea whose waves served as a
whip for mujhadeen's passion of the sea but today this sea, this sky and this
sun were seeing tears of helplessness in the eyes of this nation's daughters and
children whose martyrs had granted charm and gracefulness to the specks of the
dusty earth of Andalus with the splashes of their blood. These silent spectators
of the ups and downs of the ages were grabbing the hem of time and enquiring,
"Is this that very nation whose blood glimmers from the red stones of Al-Hamra?"

Standing at a corner of the boat, Rabia was having a last glimpse of the shore
of Andalus. Curtains of tears were falling in front of her eyes.

Yusuf stepped forward and said, "Mother! Zubaida says that Uncle Bashir will
leave us in Morocco and return."  

"Yes, son!" Rabia replied without looking at him.

After pondering for a while, Yusuf replied, "Mother dear! I will also return
back with him."

Placing her hand over her son's head, Rabia said, "No, son! You are still very
little. When you grow up, I won't forbid you from going."

"Mother! I will grow up really fast. I will become a navigator. You used to say
that everyone in Morocco is a Muslim. I will make all of them board a ship and
take them to Andalus and we will take the enemies out of our country. Mother!
You say that when Tariq came here he did not have many men with him despite that
they were victorious. When one Muslim can fight ten infidels then why have
thousands of Muslims from Granada left this country and gone. You say that
thousands of Muslims from Cordova, Seville and other cities have also gone to
Morocco. Why didn't they get together and fight?"

"Son! Tariq's companions had faith but the faith of these people is weak. They
took death to be a game and these people are afraid of death. In those times,
even an ordinary Muslim would not betray his nation and now even the affluent
people are traitors."

A little away from Rabia, Zubaida was saying to Angela, "Mother! Yusuf says that
he wants to be a captain of a ship and take a large army from Morocco to
Andalus."

"Yes, my daughter. What Yusuf says is correct."

"Then, I will also go with him, mother dear."

"What will you do if you go along with him?"

"I will provide first aid to the wounded. Mother dear! I will also learn to
shoot an arrow."

"Okay, my daughter."

On the other side of the boat, the Moroccan captain of this fleet was having a
conversation with Bashir bin Hassan. After asking a few questions regarding Badr
bin Mughira's latest victory and martyrdom, the captain asked, "Until when will
you continue this war?"

Bashir bin Hassan replied, "Until blood keeps running in our veins, the desire
for martyrdom will remain in our hearts."

The captain said, "I respect your feelings but don't you think that your war
will increase the problems for the remainder of the Muslims in Andalus."

"No, on the contrary we think that when our swords will go back in the
scabbards, the hands of tyranny will be raised on them with more severity."

"But what will be the outcome of the war by a handful of muj훮hid카n?"

"There can only be two outcomes of a war by the muj훮hid카n. Victory or
martyrdom."

"I think, in your case, there are more chances of martyrdom than of a victory."

"Even then we won't be at a loss. The chapter of history of the Muslims in
Andalus that will be written with our blood will be different from the chapter
that the people of Granada are writing with their tears of helplessness. The
coming generations won't bow their heads in shame after reading it. Our fate
would not have a life of humiliation and disgrace."

The captain said, "If nature intended our betterment then a glorious mujahid
like Musa would not have had to face defeat in Granada and after him the
remainder of the muj훮hid카n wouldn't have been deprived of Badr bin Mughira's
leadership."

Bashir annoyingly said, "Who says that Musa has been unsuccessful in his
mission? The people of Granada's defeat was not Musa's defeat. This was the
defeat of the traitors and the nation-sellers who gave priority to a life of
slavery and humiliation compared to a death of dignity. This was Abu Abdullah's
defeat. This was the defeat of those emirs and religious scholars who have
accepted perpetual humiliation and disgrace for the sake of being alive for a
few more days in this world. Musa was a true believer. He lived a life of a
true believer and died a death of a true believer. If you think that nature
doesn't require our betterment, even then you are wrong. Nature has showered us
with gifts for centuries for the sake of a few people. We defeated the mightiest
powers of the world. Isn't it a gift of nature that a handful of muj훮hid카n in
the Valley of the Falcons have been stopping the storm of savagery and barbarism
for years? Isn't it a gift of nature that it gave another chance to a nation,
whose social ethics and character had perished, leaders like Badr and Musa so
that it comes onto the straight path? If the nation betrays even such people,
then why is nature to be blamed? Even today those people are present in the
nation who don't want to be discouraged and become hopeless. These people are
commanding the last entrenchment of the nation in Andalus. These people are
giving a message not only to the Muslims of Andalus but to the Muslims of the
world to come and join them in the war between infidelity and Islam. Until the
last breath, the voices of these people will keep convulsing the Muslims of
Morocco, Egypt, Turkey and other countries. These people will keep fighting with
the hope that one day their brothers will wake up from their deep sleep. That
someday a mujahid might come to their aid and if the world of Islam doesn't wake
up, even then, the responsibility for the total destruction of the Muslims of
Andalus will not rest on these muj훮hid카n, who would have written, with their
blood, on the pages of world history that when the Muslims of the whole world
were sleeping, then, in a corner of Andalus, some diehard people were guarding
the sanctity of the Sacred Mosque."

After pondering for a while, the captain said, "Can I join your group?"

Bashir bin Hassan replied, "You don't need my permission. Seek advice from your
heart."

"I have already taken the advice from my heart."

The muj훮hid카n kept fighting for several years under the leadership of their new
leader Mansoor bin Ahmed. For ages, the Valley of the Falcons kept being
beautified with their blood. Several times their swords proved to be Alexander's
blow in front of the flood of savagery and barbarism. At times they would have
to retreat due to the intensity of this flood and at times the waves of the
storm would collide with these rocks of determination and courage and recede but
the world of Islam kept sleeping. The Muslim of Morocco was happy in his desert.
The Muslim of Egypt was sleeping at the banks of the Nile. The Turk had dozed
off in the shades of the walls of Constantinople. The Arabs were elated in their
oasis and the Muslim monarchs of India were busy in building luxurious palaces
for themselves.

These people remained with their unsheathed swords for several years but no
Yusuf bin Tashfeen from Morocco, no Salahuddin Al-Ayyoubi from Egypt, no Malek
Shah from Turkey, no Mohammad bin Qasim from the Arabs and no Mahmood Ghaznavi
from Afghanistan came to their aid. The dust of Andalus kept being watered with
the blood of the martyrs while the rocks of Gibraltar kept waiting for the ships
from the south and east. Until Mansoor and his comrades kept fighting the way
for the Muslims to migrate remained somewhat open. Gradually, the number of
muj훮hid카n kept dwindling. However, they kept the war on for another three
generations. This war stopped with the last drop of blood in the veins of the
muj훮hid카n. The sword admitted it helplessness when the hands that held it were
eventually cut. Then the flood of savagery and barbarism came with its
rejuvenated power and renewed intentions. For the remainder of the Muslims in
Andalus, there was nothing but fire, blood, tears and sighs left for them.

What did the Muslims of Andalus go through? How many of them were of those
thousands whose minor children were snatched away from them before they were
expelled from the country? How many thousands of them were burned alive? How
many of them were killed after being severely tortured? What was the number of
women that were whipped to death?

History does give us the answers to all these questions but we will have to turn
the pages of history to find the details to these painful events. We can see the
image of the past in the mirror of the present. After the ruling for eight
hundred years in Andalus not a single Muslim can be seen there today. The
mosques of Cordova, Granada and Seville are present there even today but the
tongue that gave the Athaan have been silenced forever.

The blunder of the elders of Granada did not become limited to a few people.
This proved to be a collective sin of a nation. And today, the walls of Al-Hamra
are proclaiming that nature does not forgive the collective sin of a nation.
