
# The Man in Black

The rumor of Badr bin Mughira's assassination spread in the length and breadth
of Andalus like wildfire. It was Abu Abdullah's wish for this news not spread
among the people of Granada but Abu Dawood advised him that this news would
dishearten Abul Hassan's supporters. So, a few paid orators were assigned to
broadcast the news of the Frontier Falcon's assassination among the people of
Granada.

Abu Dawood dispatched his emissary to Ferdinand with the message that this was
the right time to strike a final blow to Abul Hassan.

According to his own opinion, Abu Abdullah thought that that he had gotten rid
of his greatest enemy. However, the presence of the Frontier Falcon's comrades
in the vicinity of Granada was no less disturbing for him. But when he heard
that the Frontier Falcon's comrades have decided to leave instead of laying a
siege on Granada, his jubilation had no bounds. Two or three days later when
he got the news that they were abandoning Abul Hassan and leaving Malaga also,
he feasted in the palace and distributed prizes among the nation sellers.

After a few days an emissary of Ferdinand came and informed him that in a few
weeks their forces would reach the southern coast of Andalus. He informed and
said, "Major part of the army would advance from the north and east towards
Mount Nevada to crush the strength of the border tribes. The other contingent
would head east of Cadiz and Jerez De La Frontera. Both armies would meet in
the mountains of Sierra Nevada and then capture all the cities near the
coastline. In the meantime, you need to immediately come out of Granada and
attack Malaga. We anticipate that you will be able to capture Malaga by that
time. However, if you are unable to capture Malaga due to stiff resistance of
the enemy, which I doubt, then the ruler of Cadiz will come to your aid."

Abu Abdullah thought that after assassinating Badr bin Mughira, he had cleared
every thorn in Ferdinand's path. He was confident that his ally and patron
would not burden his shoulders with another war. He would descend on Malaga
like a storm and return after annihilating his enemies and after recognizing
him as the sole ruler of Andalus. On hearing Ferdinand's message, he nervously
asked Abu Dawood, "In the given circumstances, doesn't Ferdinand know that the
most secure place for me are the confines of the four walls of Al-Hamra? After
the Frontier Falcon's assassination, the people of Granada are extremely
infuriated with me. As for the army, I fear that in case I invade my father,
some of them might defect to his side."

Abu Dawood understood Ferdinand's strategy. He knew that Ferdinand could not
trust Abu Abdullah completely and therefore he wanted him to attack Malaga so
that the gulf of hatred between the father and son would become so wide that
there would be no chance of a reconciliation between them.

So he replied, "Maybe he desires to divide the enemy's attention on three
fronts. If you avoid going to war, then he might even give up the idea of
supporting you. Therefore, you should attack Malaga without any further delay.
The Frontier Falcon and his comrades were the enemy's biggest support. The
Frontier Falcon has been killed and his companions have returned to their
homes, so possibly, you can capture Malaga before Ferdinand's arrival. After
Malaga's victory, all the rebel chiefs and tribes of the south would bear
allegiance to you and this way you wouldn't have to take Ferdinand's favor."

Abu Abdullah replied, "I am ready to attack Malaga but only when Ferdinand's
armies have entered the bordering areas."

Abu Dawood replied, "If you so command, I can dispatch this reply."

"Sure! But write it in such a way that the King should not think that I am a
coward. I only want to be cautious."

Abul Hassan had become paralyzed and blind. On the insistence of the emirs he
nominated his brother, Al-Zeghel, as his successor. Ferdinand left Castile
with his innumerable army, camped near Cordova and prepared to serve a final
blow to the Muslims' last bastion of defense in Andalus.  He ordered the
Christian nobles of Jerez De La Frontera, Seville and Cadiz to advance toward
Sierra Nevada ravaging the cities South West of Granada and for another part
of the army to be given under an experienced general to subdue the border
tribes in the North East.

When Ferdinand's army entered Badr bin Mughira's independent territory, they
hardly faced any stiff resistance apart from an attack or two from the rear
and the side flanks. The Christians had destroyed a number of cities along
their path and marched in the Frontier Falcon's territory in high spirits. One
day their general delivered a speech in front of his troops after capturing a
deserted fort and said:

"Brave Men! This was the area where no bird would flap its wings without the
Frontier Falcon's permission. Now the leader of these rebels is gone and their
morale is low. Our King thought that we would have to face stiff resistance
but these people run away on hearing the trotting of our horses. Our swords
are thirsty for the blood of the enemy but it looks as if their thirst won't
be quenched until we reach Malaga. Therefore, we should forge forward without
resting in between. We don't want our brothers, who are advancing from Cadiz
towards Malaga to take precedence over us."

The next day when they were passing through the forest, they faced some
unprecedented situations. The rear flank was suddenly attacked by a thousand
horsemen who killed three thousand men within moments of the attack and
disappeared into the forest.

Badr bin Mughira's biggest success was that after an attack or two, he had
maneuvered the enemy's army into dangerous gorges and pathways where every
cliff could become an impregnable fort for the attackers. Some seasoned
officers of the Christian army advised their general to change their route but
he was blinded by power. Like the general, his soldiers too, who would
normally be cautious in such pathways, were confident that the rebellious
border tribes would have given up hope after the Frontier Falcon's death.
Under the leadership of the man-in-black, the thousand horsemen had inflicted
substantial damage to them and it was intolerable for the Christians to move
forward without getting even with them.

One evening the Christian army chased the frontier horsemen through difficult
and narrow pathways and ended up into a valley after passing a narrow gorge.
Huge mountains stood in front. Therefore, the general ordered the army to
encamp there. To neutralize any unprecedented attack, he dispatched a few
units to the mountains in the vicinity to stay on guard. After having a day of
onslaught, the weary army slept, once they had a stomach full of food and
wine. Even the general and the other officers slept thinking that the troops
on guard on the mountains in the vicinity were enough to repel any
unprecedented attack. Suddenly, in the third part of the night, the screams of
the guards were heard. The general got up in distress, and came out of his
tent rubbing his eyes. There was groaning everywhere and all around there were
several tents on fire. The Christian army tried to reach for their swords but
suddenly a rain of arrows ensued. Several troops were killed by the attackers
in the illumination of the fire.

The general ordered the troops to take cover in the darkness. The troops
started moving away from the burning tents. All of a sudden, cries of "Allahu
Akbar" resonated all around and within moments the attackers descended and
fell upon the bewildered Christians troops. In the darkness, several Christian
swords clashed with each other.

Believing that the number of attackers would be few in numbers, the general
ordered his troops to spread out and capture the mountains but the intense
rain of stones and arrows prevented them from doing so. By dawn the condition
of the Christians was such that neither the officers nor the soldiers were
aware of each other's plight. They tried to save their own lives by hiding
behind rocks and trees. The attackers had captured and were riding many of the
Christians' horses. The rest of the horses that were cut loose were aimlessly
running here and there in the forest. Many of their troops were crushed under
their feet. In the light of the morning, the Christians saw that the attackers
had captured their horses and were now using them by attacking them with
lances. The Christian general had hoped that the attackers would flee with the
approaching morning but observing their enthusiasm, he concluded that they had
chosen this valley for a decisive battle. The corpses of the Christians in the
field were demoralizing. Compared to the attackers, their army was still five
times greater but the continuous attacks in the valley by the horsemen had
uprooted them. The general decided to retreat by battling defensively. Exiting
the valley and entering into a narrow gorge, he thought that his troops were
now safe from the range of the lancers but here too he could not take a sigh
of relief. Once again the cries of the mujahideen hiding behind grisly rocks
were heard and the rain of stones and arrows ensued.

A stone came and hit the general and he fell down. The troops became hopeless
as soon as he died. The lieutenant general ordered the army to quickly leave
the valley. After coming out of the rain of stones and arrows and reaching an
even area, the lieutenant general took stock of his remaining troops. Out of
twenty thousand troops only eight thousand remained. Fearing the danger of
being pursued, he did not even allow his troops to catch their breath.

After moving for about two miles, this army was now entering a dense forest
when suddenly about a thousand horsemen appeared from behind the trees and in
the first assault itself they threw the Christian army in disarray. Leading
the attackers was the very same man-in-black whom the Christian general
eagerly wanted to capture alive and who had brought him into these perilous
regions. About two thousand Christians fled and hid in the forest while the
remainder of the army surrendered after putting up a brief resistance.

After posting Al-Zaghairi for Malaga's protection, Al-Zeghel along with five
thousand warriors kept retreating after fighting defensively against the
cowardly army of Cordova, Seville, Cadiz and other cities of the northwest and
waited for the Frontier Falcon after reaching the foot of the Sierra Nevada.

Ferdinand was receiving very encouraging news of his general's successes in
the valley of the falcons. After hearing the news of Al-Zeghel's repulse and
retreat towards Sierra Nevada, he sent a message to the generals of both his
armies that instead of heading towards the coastal areas they should corner
Al-Zeghel from both sides. At the same time, he sent a message to Abu Abdullah
in Granada that he should attack Malaga immediately.

Abu Abdullah had already received the news that major part of the army was
with Al-Zeghel and that Al-Zaghairi was guarding the city with a very small
number of troops. Therefore, thinking that victory was imminent, he invaded
Malaga. Besides the chiefs who were bought-out by Ferdinand, the army also
comprised of people who were hopeless about the future of the Muslims in
Andalus and were pleasing Ferdinand just so that they could live.

A day before Abu Abdullah left Granada with his army, Ferdinand's army had
been annihilated and three days later, the Frontier Falcon's warriors had
rallied under Al-Zeghel's banner. Al-Zeghel's army feared the enemy's size but
their morale was boosted when they heard about the glorious victory. Al-Zeghel
inspected all the checkposts around his camp alongwith Badr bin Mughira and
Mansour bin Ahmed. Apart from Badr bin Mughira's men, no one knew that he was
alive. On seeing a veiled person with Al-Zeghel they would believe that after
the snatching of Badr bin Mughira, destiny had given them a new supporter. His
camp was a little away from the encampment of the rest of the army and only a
few selected officers of Al-Zeghel's army, who knew about this secret, had the
permission to go there.

The bellicose tribes of Alpujarras thronged under Al-Zeghel's banner. After a
long time, they got a chance to fight alongside the mujahideen of the falcon's
territory. Because Mansour bin Ahmed used to be considered Badr bin Mughira's
successor, therefore, they requested Al-Zeghel to give them under Mansour bin
Ahmed's command. Mansoor prepared the battle map according to Badr bin
Mughira's instructions and spread the tribal mujahideen on the entire
pathways. He instructed them to seal the areas behind the Christian army as it
advanced forward.

This battalion was unaware of the consequence suffered by the army that had
attacked the territory of the falcon. After encamping for five days at the
fort of the Sierra Nevada they kept waiting for a message from its general.
However, a few night raids by the tribal mujahideen compelled them to move
forward.

After burning a few settlements and capturing a few men and women during their
three-day advancement, Ferdinand's battalion had finally entered this
dangerous territory where the falcons of the frontier were anxiously waiting.

Badr bin Mughira attacked the enemy's vanguard troops with a thousand of his
elite warriors and vanished into the mountains after devastating them. While
the General was coming to terms with the situation, he got the news of a rear
attack by the tribes. This area was not wide enough for a full-fledged battle.
The General commanded his troops to march forward swiftly. After this ravine
was a steep slope followed by a valley. Feeling the intensity of the rear
attack he decided to descend into the valley. After about two miles the lower
part of this valley merged into a wide forest and its highland showed a narrow
gulley between two mountains.

On one side, the General considered the tribal attackers to be extremely
dangerous in the forest and on the other, he feared of being surrounded in a
narrow gulley. He ordered the army to halt and sent the vanguard units in both
directions to check the paths while he waited for the attackers. Moments later
his rear troops also caught up and reported that they have repelled the attack
of the aggressors.

The vanguard troops that advanced towards the lower part of the territory
returned after facing a volley of arrows as soon as they entered into the
forest and reported that the forest was infested with archers.

The troops that had gone to the other side of the valley reported that they
had scanned the area within ten miles. This area was wide in some places and
narrow at some. On both sides there were high mountains. They also reported
that they had not spotted any enemy soldiers. Some shepherds informed them
that after a distance of two days the valley merges into the fertile lands
where the tribal settlements of Alpujarras begin.

The Christian General viewed this route also as being dangerous. Even after
encamping here, he feared of being surrounded from all sides. He also feared
that even if the attackers come out of the mountains and did not engage him in
a proper battle even then they could inflict substantial damage by conducting
night raids. Facing him were the mountains of Sierra Nevada. On his left was
the forest which was impossible to cleanse from the enemy. Behind him was the
slope where he would have to pass through the narrow ravine again where he had
already incurred a huge loss. He also felt that once he turned back, the army
hiding in the forest would ascend the mountains and block his path.
Inevitably, he decided to take the route on the right. When the valley would
be narrow, the foot soldiers would climb the mountains on both sides to secure
the army from the enemy's rocks and arrows. And when the valley would become
wide they would come down from the difficult terrain and join up with the
mounted troops. They continued moving this way until evening without any
incident.

It was night but the General could not find a suitable place to encamp. After
moving for a while in the darkness of the night, the narrow valley and
mountains on both sides appeared to be huge. The darkness was so much that
some horses almost tripped. Some officers advised the General that it seemed
that the valley had no end. They opinioned that it might take them where it
could become difficult to move forward and where the enemy might be lying
waiting for them. Therefore, they advised that it would be better to either
return back or get rid of the horses in the valley and take to the mountains.
This way they would be in a better position to retaliate in case of an
unprecedented attack. They also said that in the light of the morning if they
had to return, even then, their foot-soldiers would ascend the mountains and
secure the path.

As they were contemplating their options a rock fell from above. Perplexed,
they stared at each other in the darkness of the night with eyes wide open.
Moments later, a few more rocks fell and the screams of the casualties could
be heard and this culminated into a rain of rocks. The General ordered the
army to push back but there was no reduction in the pace of the raining rocks.
The sound of rocks and the screams of the injured coupled with neighing
horses, depicted a scene of doomsday. The attackers were raising the slogans
of "Allahu Akbar" from the top of the mountains.

To prevent his army from annihilation the General ordered his troops to
dismount the horses and take to the mountains. But only a few horsemen got to
hear his orders in the clamor. The ones who could hear his command and wanted
to comply, soon realized that it was not easy climbing the rocks. Most
horsemen had turned the reins of their horses with the intention of getting to
wider area of the valley.

Until morning this army rambled and faced immense destruction. Out of thirty
thousand troops, twelve thousand became the target of rocks. Five thousand
climbed the mountains and successfully escaped. The rest of the army reached
where they had initially started their journey but they did not get time to
stabilize. Fresh horsemen emerged from the forest. Their General had the flag
of Granada in his hand. Within moments, they flew their horses and quickly
reached over their heads. The Christians still outnumbered them. They fought
intensely but soon five thousand additional troops descended a mountain under
the leadership of a masked man. Their flag sported a picture of a falcon. They
threw the enemy lines in disarray in the first charge. The battlefield started
echoing with cries of "Long Live Islam", "Long Live Granada", "Long Live
Al-Zeghel" and "Long Live the Mujahideen".

Three thousand horsemen of Ferdinand's army left the battlefield and headed
towards the forest while the rest threw down their arms.

The prisoners also comprised of about two thousand of Ferdinand's knights and
his army's high ranking officers.

Abu Abdullah ultimately set out for Malaga. He had come to know that Al-Zeghel
had left Malaga and taken to the mountains and only a small army was
protecting Malaga. Besides this, he consoled in the fact that even if he is
not successful in taking the city quickly, Ferdinand's forces would arrive for
his support within a few days after completing their mission of subduing the
tribes of the mountains. But Al-Zaghairi came out of the city and battled with
him. Al-Zaghairi's troops were smaller but compared to Abu Abdullah's
mercenaries they had far more zest and zeal. When the armies faced each other,
Al-Zaghairi, made an inspiring speech in front of his army and said:

"The enemy's numbers are greater than yours but remember that a traitor is
never brave. Today your battle is for your survival. If you lose, Ferdinand's
flag will be hoisted by Abu Abdullah over Malaga. Have trust in Allah's
support. These nation sellers and mercenaries are no competition for you. Abu
Abdullah's biggest support is Ferdinand but you have heard the good news that
half of his army has been devastated in the territory of the falcon by a
handful of mujahideen."

"In the coming days, God-willing, you will also hear that the rest of his army
in Sierra Nevada has had the same fate. Mujahids! Advance forward! The group
chosen by God for today's victory is none but you."

Abu Abdullah and most of his companions had come with the intention of laying
siege of the city. Challenging a warrior like Al-Zaghairi in an open field was
totally against their wishes. While they were in the midst of this confusion,
a General of Al-Zaghairi's army galloped into the field and cried loudly:

"A Muslim only fights for the truth. If anyone of you thinks that they are on
the truth, then I invite him to a duel. If your heart is a witness to the fact
that you are not on the truth, then know that you won't be able to stand up
against us. You have come here based on Ferdinand's support but know that not
even one soldier of his will come to your aid. Half of his army has been
destroyed in the Territory of the Falcon and the other half has been
surrounded by our Supreme Commander. Abu Abdullah! Even then if you want to
fight then come into the battlefield yourself. Maybe your culmination will
bring those people who have been misguided to the right path."

Abu Abdullah looked towards his soldiers and seeing the hopelessness on their
faces said,

"That is a lie. Don't listen to him. No power can defeat Ferdinand."

On Abu Abdullah's cue a Berber chief prompted his horse forward. A mujahid of
Malaga raised a lance and attacked after making a round with his horse.
Moments later, Abu Abdullah's army saw the Berber chief agonizing on the
ground.

Al-Zaghairi's army waited for his signal. Al-Zaghairi shouted "Allahu Akbar"
as he raised his lance and the mujahideen of Malaga attacked Abu Abdullah's
army like a storm.

After an hour the battalion of nation-sellers was heading towards Granada
leaving four hundred corpses in the battlefield. Al-Zaghairi intercepted them
for a distance but returned back thinking Malaga was vulnerable.

Before Abu Abdullah reached Granada, its dwellers had already received the
news of the glorious victory of the Muslims in Sierra Nevada and the Territory
of the Falcon. There were celebrations in the markets and streets. Some
gathered in the mosques and prayed for Al-Zeghel's long life while some
gathered at road intersections encircling poets and listened to their odes and
tributes honoring the frontier warriors and tribal mujahideen.

Shortly after Abu Abdullah entered the Al-Hamra palace, the news of his defeat
spread in the entire city and the people started gathering outside the gate of
his palace. The guards closed the gate.

As soon as Abu Abdullah entered the palace, the Sultanate's deputy informed
him that he had already confirmed the news of the Christians' defeat on both
fronts. He said, "Some of Ferdinand's defeated troops had strayed into a
settlement close to Granada. The settlement's chief brought them to me. One of
them was from the army that was destroyed in the Territory of the Falcon and
the rest were those who were successful in escaping Al-Zeghel's attack in
Sierra Nevada. I received similar news from a number of protectors of the
checkposts of Granada that they have seen bands of Christian troops that fled
the battlefield. The news has caused jubilation among the citizens and besides
the Grand Mufti, the students have also killed chiefs that were loyal to you.
They have also burned several homes belonging to troops that accompanied you
to the expedition".

To take a stock of the new scenario, Abu Abdullah called for a meeting of the
nobles in the Dar Al-Aswad as he sat in a separate room and asked a slave to
go and fetch Abu Dawood. While the slave went to call Abu Dawood, Abu Abdullah
got up and started strolling in the room. Later, the slave returned and
informed Abu Abdullah that Abu Dawood had gone away somewhere.

Abu Abdullah asked anxiously, "Where?"

The slave replied, "Only the warden has this information and he requests the
honor to present himself."

Abu Abdullah said, "Call him immediately."

Moments later the warden of Al-Hamra entered the room and stood in front of
Abu Abdullah with his head bowed down.

Abu Abdullah enquired, "Do you know where Abu Dawood has gone?"

The warden replied, "All he told me was that he was going away to implement
your orders."

"He has gone somewhere out of Granada."

"He left in a coach from here. He has also taken his essential belongings with him."

"Go and ask his family. No! I will go myself." Abu Abdullah advanced towards
the door but the warden said, "His residence is empty."

"What did you say?"

"All of them have left."

Abu Abdullah was aghast and looking towards the warden said, "When did they leave?"

"Today at noon."

"Why didn't you stop them?"

"I couldn't dare to do that without your permission."

"Did any emissary come to him?"

"No. But it seems that he was quite disturbed after hearing the news of the
Christians' defeat."

"Has he left any message for me?"

"No. He said he is going away somewhere to carry out your orders. Because there
were mobs of people at the gates of Al-Hamra, they had to leave using the back
door. He didn't even want anyone from outside to recognize him therefore he
donned the attire of a Moroccan merchant."

Abu Abdullah dismissed the warden and after contemplating alone for a while
entered the chamber where the emirs had gathered.

Abu Abdullah's comrades were the type of people, having a defeated type of
mentality, who had tried to carve out a future for themselves with the
Christians, once they thought that the Muslims would surely be defeated in the
upcoming battles. Abu Dawood had convinced them that Ferdinand would certainly
pay them for their treachery once the time came but Ferdinand's defeat and Abu
Dawood's sudden disappearance only multiplied their concerns.

When Abu Abdullah entered Dar Al-Aswad, he noticed that a lot of seats were
empty. On enquiring he found out that some emirs had gone underground on
hearing the defeat of the Christians. He was also told that it could be quite
possible that some could have gone and joined up with Al-Zeghel while some
could have joined-up with the demonstrators.

Abu Abdullah enquired from the audience, "What is your opinion now?"

They started looking at each other. Finally, a chief stood up and said, "Great
Sultan! Very soon Al-Zeghel's armies will be standing at the gates of Granada.
The people's zeal and excitement is such that if it was not for Al-Hamra's
impregnable boundary and iron gates, they would not spare anyone of us today.
The ones we trusted the most are the ones leading them. After the defeat at
Malaga, our army does not have the courage to fight Al-Zeghel. If he captures
Granada, he will hang each one of us just for avenging the Frontier Falcon's
crime alone. The only way out for us is to leave Granada and take refuge with
Ferdinand. He will certainly avenge his defeat. I'm sure that Ferdinand must
have sent a very small army for this mission and he would not sit quietly
after this defeat. Presently, Granada is insecure for us. If it was secure,
Abu Dawood wouldn't have disappeared so suddenly. Now the biggest challenge in
front of us is how could we be saved from Al-Zeghel's revenge."

One after the other, each one of the nobles supported this advice. Abu
Abdullah thought for a long while with his head bowed down. Finally, he said,
"If this is your opinion then I will not oppose it."

Taking a sigh of relief, the chief said, "So it would be better if we left as
soon as possible. I think leaving at night would be better but today an
agitated mob has surrounded Al-Hamra. Therefore, we should be prepared for
tomorrow night."

Abu Abdullah dismissed the assembly and ordered the Prime Minister to stay
behind. For a while, both contemplated about their future with different
options.

Abu Abdullah said, "Are you convinced that Ferdinand would be ready to wage
another war to restore my lost throne after incurring such a huge loss. Taking
my uncle as a formidable enemy, wouldn't he extend a hand of compromise
instead of waging war to save a weak and defeated ally? Let's say for the sake
of reaching a compromise with my father and uncle he hands me and you over to
them?"

The minister thought for a while and said, "Future events will predict whether
the steps we took were right or not. In any case, we have associated our
future with Ferdinand. Now the only way out for us is to go to him. Abu Dawood
has reached there and with his presence it would only be a miracle if
Ferdinand extends a hand of friendship towards Al-Zeghel or your father. Don't
worry. Ferdinand would be needing us until he has avenged his defeats."

The Warden of Al-Hamra entered the chamber, came forward and said after paying
his respects, "The Governor of the Northern Frontier requests permission to
appear."

Abu Abdullah looked at the warden and burst out annoyingly, "Don't you know
that at the moment we are talking to the Prime Minister?"

The warden said, "Great Sultan! I tried to stop him but he insisted to meet
with you. He has come with some important news."

The minister said, "But why has he entered Al-Hamra at this time?"

The warden replied, "Today evening, just before the arrival of the Great
Sultan, an honorable lady of the city who has been given permission by the
Great Queen to enter Al-Hamra at anytime had come to the Great Queen with some
message from him and the Great Queen ordered me to call him into the palace."

Abu Abdullah asked, "The Queen has already met him?"

"Yes. And she had ordered me that I should come to Your Majesty and take
permission for him to meet with you."

Abu Abdullah asked, "Where is he now?"

"He is standing outside by the door. He was insisting that he should be
presented in front of you during the meeting with the emirs itself but I
stopped him with great difficulty. He is very disturbed."

Abu Abdullah said, "If he has come with the news that Ferdinand's armies have
been defeated then tell him that I cannot meet him."

"Great Sultan! He is injured and the Great Queen said that it is very important
that he meets with you."

Abu Abdullah said, "Okay. Call him."

The warden offered his salutations and went out. Moments later, a tall, strong
youth entered the chamber. He had a white bandage on his forehead and with his
right hand he was supporting his left arm that was hanging on a handkerchief
around his neck.

"Great Sultan!" He respectfully offered his salutations and said, "I apologize
for causing disturbance to your rest at this time but it was important for me
to be presented before you."

Abu Abdullah said, "You are injured."

Being indifferent, he replied, "These injuries are trivial. I have come to you
with very sad news."

Abu Abdullah said, "If you have come with the news that my uncle is going to
attack Granada or that Ferdinand's army has fled the battlefield then you
won't be adding to what we already know."

"Great Sultan! I only want to tell you about my region."

The people there must have rebelled against us. We are not interested even in
such news. The rebels of your region would not be raising slogans against us
more vehemently than the rebels of Granada."

"No. I have not come here to represent the rebels. I have come to bring the
voice of the oppressed to your majesty's ears. To seek revenge, the fleeing
troops of the defeated Christian army have created havoc along the border.
They have burned fifteen of our settlements. Apart from looting the people's
goods and wealth, they have also kidnapped about forty young girls. Christian
soldiers of many checkposts from across the border have also entered into our
area. I had a total of five hundred soldiers yesterday. Out of these, nearly
three hundred have been killed. The numbers of the perpetrators are increasing
over time. They are killing all the women, children and the elderly. They
started a war against us without any declaration. The area along the border is
becoming empty. If we don't stop this storm of barbarism and savagery
immediately then within two or three days several thousand refugees would
leave their homes and head for Granada."

Abu Abdullah said, "What can you expect from me in such circumstances?"

The youth replied with a bit of fervor, "I won't say anything on my own. I
have delivered to the Great Sultan's ears the voice of those daughters of my
nation whose honor is being looted, whose infants are being killed in front of
them. If the Great Sultan asks me what is it that they want, then I would
reply by saying that we should immediately declare war against these dacoits
and looters."

Abu Abdullah said, "Currently, our biggest concern is to keep the agitating
people away from Al-Hamra. If you don't have an idea of the problem we're
facing, then, go and see the people that are gathered at the gates yourself."

"I have already seen them and even here I can hear the sound of their voices.
All of them are saying that the Christian are our enemies. They have made life
difficult for their Muslim subjects in Hispania and now they want to play the
same game in the Sultanate of Granada."

Abu Abdullah replied, "Your ears are quite sharp but can't you hear them
shouting, 'Abu Abdullah is a traitor' and 'destroy Al-Hamra'."

The Governor replied, "I have heard everything but I know that they are our
own. They take you as their protector and caretaker. In the face of these
immediate dangers, they want their Sultan, their protector and caretaker to
lead them to face the challenges. Had they considered you alien, they wouldn't
have gathered at the gates the way they have. They are agitated but a few
words from you could pacify them. In fact, those few words can divert their
energies into in a different direction. I'm sure that if they come to know
about the plight of their frontier brothers and if you announce in front of
them that the Christians would be punished for this crime, then I'm sure every
person would be willing to die under your banner. Or else...?"

Seeing the Governor hesitant, Abu Abdullah enquired, "Or else what?"

The Governor replied, "Or else you know that they won't be wrong in
associating their future with Al-Zeghel."

Abu Abdullah replied, "They have already associated their future with Al-Zeghel."

"But the Christians' behavior at the border has made it clear what they have in
store for the Muslims. After this, it is important that we become one. If you
immediately order the army to crush the perpetrators of the borders, you will
see that for every soldier, we will gain ten volunteers from the people of
Granada. This would be an expiation of our past faults and I'm sure your uncle
would also forget about the past grievances."

Seeing Abu Abdullah impressed, the minister said, "Labeling any decision of
the Great Sultan as an error is a crime and you are a responsible officer of
the army."

"If I had no sense of responsibility, then maybe, I would not have uttered
these words."

Abu Abdullah said, "We cannot take any decision at the moment. You go and rest
and we will see about this tomorrow."

The Governor said, "Great Sultan! I want to return to the border immediately.
Several of our settlements must have been ravaged by now. If you can't take a
decision until tomorrow, then at least give me five hundred horsemen of the
army. I'm sure I would be able to raise at least two thousand volunteers before
dawn. The people only want to know that you will no longer bear the aggression
of the Christians."

The minister said, "We have an agreement of friendship with Ferdinand."

"If this were not the case, I would have raised an army of volunteers without
the Great Sultan's permission and gone to the border."

The minister said, "We will send an emissary first thing in the morning to
Ferdinand and lodge a protest. I'm sure this attack by the Christians on our
borders was without his permission and knowledge."

The Governor replied, "A goat's protest cannot change a wolf's nature."

Abu Abdullah replied annoyingly, "You can leave. We will call you if we need
your advices. Now we need to take some rest."

"So should I take it from the Great Sultan that we should leave these helpless
people on their own?"

Abu Abdullah said in culmination, "So far we have not given any orders to you.
Wait until morning. You are our guest till tomorrow." Abu Abdullah clapped his
hand. The warden of Al-Hamra entered the chamber. Abu Abdullah said, "Take him
to the guest house."

The Governor of the border areas looked at the minister and the Sultan in a
concerned and perturbed manner and then left without saying anything.
