
<!-- Chapter 9 -->

# Father and Son

In the battle of Loja where mujahids like Naeem Bin Ridwan were writing the
fate of the Muslims of Andalus with the ink of their blood, another fate was
being written in the Royal Court of Granada.

On hearing the news of the Christians' capture of Alhamma, Abu Dawood
immediately went to his student and on seeing him in grief said, "O Prince,
didn't I tell you that destiny has chosen you and not Abul Hassan for the
redevelopment of the Sultanate of Granada. The star of the fate of Muslims of
Andalus will only shine when the Crown of Granada is placed over your head. O
Prince! Your time is coming."

"God knows when my time will come. Alhamma has slipped out of our hands. Now,
they can invade Granada anytime."

"But haven't you thought that after the fall of Alhamma, the people, as well as
some chiefs have started to feel that at this crucial period it's important to
make changes to the Emirate of Granada. I have already met a few Berber and
Hispanian chiefs. They haven't specified a very high price for themselves."

"But who would dare to do anything till Moosa is around?"

"When the time comes, we will deal with him too. If those chiefs who Abul
Hassan has arrested for treason are set free, then they would prove to be a
great support for you."

"But this won't be possible during Moosa's presence."

"I think he is your friend."

"But in this matter he will prove to be my worst enemy."

"We'll see when the time comes."

"When will the time come?"

"After Abul Hassan's defeat, the people of Granada will turn their attention
towards you."

"But what if he's victorious?"

"I don't think that will happen. Victories are only your destiny but even if he
gets a victory here or there, it would prove to be a foretelling of a huge
disaster. He will try to put your stepbrother on the throne. The reason he
took him along for the battle is because he wants him to be popular among the
masses."

"If that happens then I won't be in a position to fight with my father."

"Rest assured. The need to fight won't even arise."

After a few days, later when Abu Abdullah heard the news of the destruction of
Cordova's troops, he said to his teacher, "The emissary has brought the news
that the Frontier Falcon has left for Loja as soon as he had completed his
task at Cordova's front."

Abu Dawood said, "O Prince! Now that moment has arrived which I had feared the
most. It's possible that Abul Hassan could become victorious at Loja's front.
This victory could prove to be dangerous for your future. When the Sultan
enters the city, the masses would support every decision of his, whether it is
right or wrong. In their eyes the status of your stepbrother would be much
higher than yours. Even a regular soldier who took part in the expedition
would be more honorable than you."

A hopeless Abu Abdullah said, "I don't see any way out. When I listen to your
talk, I get disturbed. My mind asks me to jump into a sea whose depths throbs
my heart with fear but when I am with my mother her words take me into a very
different world. Even today she assured me that my father has repeatedly sworn
to fulfill the pledge of making me his successor."

Abu Dawood said, "Maybe now the time has come that I should not let you have
any misunderstanding. Please listen to me carefully. Let me assume for a while
that your father's intentions regarding you are not negative. But, at the
moment you are forty years of age. Assuming your father lives another twenty
years, then, that would make you around sixty years old and this is that stage
of life when aspirations fall cold. This is when a person is afraid of looking
at himself in the mirror, when the greatest need for the person is a bed
whether it be in a palace or a hut. No doubt, mentally, you would be extremely
mature but that hot blood that compels man to conquer the world would become
frozen...and who could say maybe in light of the events of the coming twenty
years, the Sultan might decide something else for you. Prince! The door of
honor, fame and glory is not such that you have a desire for it and it opens
up. You have to knock on it and at times break it. There comes a critical
moment in the lives of great men. Those who waste time in thinking are left
behind. Their footprints get lost in the sands of time while those who are
courageous enough, reach their goal. Although you have not told me what your
heart desires, I know that you're longing to sit on the throne of Granada. So
far if you did not have the courage to fulfill your life's ultimate dream, it
is not because you respect your father...no...don't mind my saying but there
is a fear in your heart. The fear of what the world would say about you, what
fatwa would public give regarding you. But remember, this world calls a
successful dacoit a conqueror and labels an unsuccessful reformer a rebel. If
Abu Abdullah takes over Granada's throne and hoists the flag of his greatness
all over Andalus, then the world will say that he is a fortunate son of an
unfortunate father and that he had the right to seize the crown and throne
from him. But if Abu Abdullah passes away while waiting to be crowned at the
age of sixty or seventy, then, maybe the scrolls of history won't even have a
mention of his name. I did not entwine my fate with yours thinking that you're
any ordinary man, but if you want to waste your life in hesitation then from
today our paths are separate."

Abu Abdullah said, "For God's sake don't say that."

"Then, today you have to decide. This opportunity might not come again."

"I am ready but am I prepared enough to revolt against my father?"

"You were prepared even at the age of twenty but you have wasted away several
years of your life. The police is in our hands. You have already bought the
loyalties of the Palace Warden. Most of the Berber and Hispanic nobles are
awaiting your orders. The treasury is in your hands.

"And Moosa?"

"Imprisoning him is not difficult."

"What about the people of the city?"

"Discord can be created among them. The flame of disunity between the Arabs,
Hispanian and Berbers has simmered down but has not extinguished. I don't
expect any support from the Arabs. Only a handful among them can be bought but
if you suspend the Arab officials and appoint Hispanians and Berbers in their
place, then, there would be two benefits in this move. First, they will
support you and second is that a tussle will begin between the Berbers and
Hispanian Muslims and the Arabs Muslims. They will support you just as they
support their chiefs. To please them even more, you can release their
prisoners. You have merely two days to arrive to a decision. After this, you
might never lay hands on such an opportunity. I have conceived on how to have
Moosa arrested."

At night, a spacious chamber of the Al-Hamra Palace was lit by lanterns of
silver and gold. Granada's Berber and Hispanian Muslim nobles were seated on
chairs talking with Abu Abdullah. Silence spread for a moment over the
gathering as Moosa entered.

Moosa ran a cursory glance at the attendees and came close to Abu Abdullah and
whispered, "I would like to say something to you in private."

Seeing his attitude Abu Abdullah became nervous, but after a second he
gathered himself and said, "You can say whatever you have right here. By the
grace of God all of them are Muslims."

Moosa said, "Some things cannot be said in front of everyone."

"But at the moment we are not ready to call off this assembly. If it is some
important matter, then say it right here."

Moosa had already scrutinized the assembly. Most of those gathered were those
who had been granted entry into the Al-Hamra Palace for the first time. To
this date no noble of the Sultanate had dared to remain seated on seeing
Moosa. Hearing Abu Abdullah's words, Moosa thought that his ears were failing
him. His face blushed with anger and restraining himself said, "Prince, I have
heard that you have released the rebels."

"What you have heard is correct."

"And that you have suspended a few loyal officials of the Sultanate?"

"I had reservations about their loyalties."

"And you have placed the worst traitors of Granada on very important posts."

Abu Abdullah thundered back and said, "Moosa, misbehaving with us is not one
of your duties."

"At times the feeling of duty makes a person bold and outspoken."

"We do not appreciate such boldness and outspokenness. Why did you dare to
enter the palace from its back door?"

"When the doors of Al-Hamra are opened to such devils then I am left with no
choice but to have access to you from the back door."

On hearing this, the nobles started whispering to each other and a Berber
chief stood up and said, "Is the honor of Abu Abdullah's diehard supporters
not even safe in his own court?"

Moosa turned towards him and said, "Who is it who claims to be a diehard
supporter of Abu Abdullah more than me?"

Another chief stood up and said, "If the Crown Prince so commands, our swords
are ever ready to shut the mouth of the disobedient."

Moosa said in a voice trembling with rage, "How dare you! Aren't you the same
traitor who pitched the Berbers against the Arabs? Do you think you have
expiated your past crime just by reaching the Al-Hamra Palace from your prison
cell? And you think that the metal of Moosa's sword would become soft by
merely seeing a few traitors gathered at the Al-Hamra? I have come to Abu
Abdullah and if anyone of you thinks that his sword can stop me from
expressing my views in front of Abu Abdullah then I invite him to come
forward. I would certainly like to see who is it who has come here with the
desire of relieving the burden of his head from his neck. And Prince, you
expect loyalty from these cowards who are ready to bite the flesh off of me
but who would not even dare to place their hand over the handle of their
swords? You consider the enemies of Granada to be your friends?"

By this time Abu Abdullah had lost his patience. He stood up from his place,
came forward and said, "Moosa, have you come here with the intention of
killing me?"

"I and the intention of killing you? What are you saying?" Saying this Moosa
removed his sword and presented it to Abu Abdullah.

Abu Abdullah took the sword, tossed it to over to a side and clapped his
hands. Eight armed Berbers and Negroes entered the chamber and waited for Abu
Abdullah's cue. Abu Abdullah said, "I knew the highest security at Al-Hamra's
gates won't stop you from getting here but let me assure you that you won't be
able to leave through the same path you entered."

A dumbfounded Moosa was staring at Abu Abdullah. The very Abu Abdullah whom he
had spent his childhood with. He had taught him to mount a horse, play with a
sword and lance. He was baffled what wrong he had committed. In the morning,
Abu Abdullah had personally called him and ordered him to recruit volunteers
from nearby cities and settlements. When he returned in the evening he came to
know that Abu Abdullah had freed some rebels and suspended a few loyal
officials. He got disturbed by this news, however, he was sure that after they
had a discussion, he would be able to convince him to rectify his fault. He
left home without eating. The doors of Al-Hamra were closed for him and new
guards were posted at its gates. He entered the palace using a secret path.
Before this, he had spoken to Abu Abdullah even more harshly on several
occasions but today as soon as he entered the room he felt that his childhood
friend had changed somewhat. When he had removed his sword and had presented
it to him, he was confident that Abu Abdullah would grab him by his arm to the
other room and say, "You got upset over such a trivial matter?"

However, when he took the sword and threw it to one side, his heart was torn.
He was staring at him while these words echoed in his ears, "let me assure you
that you won't be able to leave through the same path you entered." He looked
at the armed soldiers and thought that Abu Abdullah was fooling around. That
this was all a joke.

While smiling he said, "Abu Abdullah! I am your criminal. I am guilty of
recruiting volunteers for the Loja front. I am guilty of entering the palace
using a secret entrance and I'm guilty of calling these traitors as traitors.
My greatest crime is that I am your friend. Please recommend my punishment."

Saying this Moosa bowed his head down. Abu Abdullah's eyes were filled with
tears. He wanted to place his hand on his shoulder but someone came forward
and held his hand. It was Abu Dawood.

Abu Abdullah looked at his teacher, who shook his head.

Abu Abdullah looked towards the soldiers and said remorsefully, "Take him away."

Moosa raised his head. He was standing between the bare swords of the soldiers
and the chiefs who, so far, had doubted Abu Abdullah's steadfastness, had also
drawn out their swords.

Moosa, whose thundering voice would unleash tremors in the walls of Hispania,
was gaping at Abu Abdullah in a state of shock. The mujahid of Granada's
tongue had gone mute.

Abu Abdullah could not bear the sight. He looked the other way and shouted,
"Take him away." However, his voice resonated more grief than anger.

Moosa walked in front of the soldiers without uttering a word while Abu
Abdullah entered the other room wiping his eyes with his handkerchief. Abu
Dawood said to the chiefs, "Please stay here. I will be right back."

Coming to the other room Abu Dawood said to his student, "Prince! Great men
should also have a great heart."

Abu Abdullah said in a voice drenched with pain, "But he was my friend. My
childhood friend."

Abu Dawood said, "He was a beautiful thorn in your path that you loved but to
reach your destination you have to remove many such thorns. If Moosa wants,
even now he can become a jewel of your crown and that can only be done when
there is no other claimant to the Sultanate of Granada. When he's sure that
you have taken Abul Hassan's place then he will have no objection in coming
out of prison and serving you. Now get up. This is no time for thinking. This
is the time to get work done."

The next day after the victory of Loja, when Badr Bin Mughira returned after
chasing Ferdinand's troops, Abul Hassan called in a consultative council of
the chiefs of the army. Some chiefs were of the opinion to return to Granada,
make proper preparations and then invade Ferdinand's kingdom. But Badr Bin
Mughira emphasized that Ferdinand should not be allowed to rest.

He said, "If we were to invade right after this victory, the enemy would not
be able to give us any worthy challenge in any field. No doubt we would be
able to recruit a few thousand more troops if we return to Granada but we
should not forget that our enemy's resources are far greater than ours. They
will benefit more from this break. Not only the Christians of Andalus but also
those who honor the Cross in France and Italy would come running to his aid
and the greatest apprehension is that Ferdinand might avenge this defeat on
his Muslim subjects, who even now are a lot less than the population of
Granada. On the contrary, if we were to march forward immediately, then
Muslims of every settlement of Andalus would support us, and that number would
be far more than the troops we would be recruiting once we're in Granada. Our
biggest challenge is maintaining a consistent supply of goods and provisions.
And I take responsibility for that."

Agreeing with Badr Bin Mughira's suggestions, Al-Zeghel said, "After this
victory, we won't even face any stiff resistance upto the walls of Castile. We
should not give the crumbling enemy any chance to stabilize. As far as getting
more soldiers from Granada is concerned, I think there is not a more suitable
person than Moosa."

An elderly chief said, "I too support the fact that we should move forward
instead of returning backwards but my opinion that the Sultan should hand over
this mission to Al-Zeghel and return to Granada. In past centuries, during
such situations, discord at home has caused us immense damage. There is no
doubt that Moosa is an able young man but when it comes to Granada, the sense
of security we get with the presence of the Sultan in Granada cannot be
compared with anyone else. Miscreants might try to take advantage of the
Sultan's absence but no one would dare raise their head while he is present
there."

Abul Hassan replied, "I am satisfied with the situation in Granada. However, I
won't reject your advice. I promise to return after another glorious victory."

Before the evening prayers, the consultative council decided to depart the
following morning. The next morning Abul Hassan gave the following speech in
front of his troops:

"O Mujahideen! I see the glorious victory at Loja a great reward of destiny.
This is a proof to the fact that if the Muslims of Granada were to unite, they
can, even today, smash every force of the infidels and if they were to rise
with the passion for jihad, their metal, even today, could cut any other
metal. This victory has opened the highway to other successes and if we don't
despair then I assure you that that day is not far when our flag would be
hoisted, once again, over the parliaments of Cordova and Seville."

"You must be knowing that the first mujahid of Islam to this country, Tariq Bin
Ziyad, came with a group of a handful of men. The orders given to him by his
general were only to survey the situation of the country and return. But as
soon as he set foot on the shores of Hispania, this mujahid changed his
decision and sent back this message to his general: 'I have already hoisted
the flag of Islam on the shores of Andalus and until this flag does not reach
to the end of Andalus' limits, I will not look back. You have sent me here to
assess the strength of Rodrick. With my pace of advancement you will be able
to assess his actual might.' Tariq had told his warriors that they had not
come to Rodrick's land to pierce the flag of their greatness but they had come
to a land of God to raise the banner of His greatness. He said, 'we are few in
numbers, but the secret of Muslims' strength lies not in their numbers but
rather in their faith and purity of intentions.'"

"My brave soldiers! Today we have decided to walk in the footsteps of Tariq. Do
you support our decision?"

The soldiers supported Abul Hassan's call by raising a thunderous cry. After
silencing them with a hand gesture, Abul Hassan continued his speech:

"In the battle of Loja you have proved to your enemy that a single sword of
yours can challenge ten of theirs. This victory has opened the doors of our
successes. The time has arrived for the prayers of our oppressed brethren in
Aragon and Castile to be answered. There is not a doubt that if we return back
to Granada for a few days, we will be able to participate in the celebration
of victory. People will shower us with flowers. But if we head towards Cordova
and Seville, then, our brothers and sisters, who have been enduring Christian
excesses for years, with the hope that one day the mujahids of Granada would
come to their aid would welcome us over there with tears of gratitude, instead
of flowers."

"A few days from today, who had hoped that nature would bestow such a great
victory upon us and after this victory who can say that after a few days our
Aathaans would not be echoed in the mosques of Cordova and Seville and our
flag won't flutter on the Royal Assembly of Castile."

Abul Hassan's speech was infusing new lamps of hope and fervor in the hearts
of every soldier. They were seeing the assemblies of Cordova and Seville in
their imaginations. They were hoisting the flag of victory over the Royal
Assembly of Castile. After several years, they were seeing the tears of
gratitude in the eyes of enslaved Muslims. They were saying to their oppressed
Muslim brothers and sisters, "Now, you are free. Now, no one can enslave us.
Andalus is ours. We regret that we were negligent to your plight for so long."

But Abul Hassan suddenly stopped speaking. For a while his attention was
diverted towards a horseman who was approaching closer as he galloped in full
speed. The horseman dismounted his horse and without uttering a word, made his
way forward by shoving people here and there. A soldier tried to stop him by
grabbing his arm but he freed it with a jerk and continued advancing forward
as usual.

When the people realized that he wanted to go to Abul Hassan, they started
parting away, giving him way. Abul Hassan's heartbeats were giving testimony
to the fact that the horseman had not arrived with any good news. So, he
stopped the newcomer by a hand gesture and restarted his speech to regain the
people's attention.

Al-Zeghel, who was standing next to Abul Hassan, came towards the new newcomer
and said, "Have you come from Granada?"

The newcomer replied, "Yes! I have come with an important piece of news."

"Have you been sent by Moosa?"

"No. I have come on my own."

"If you have not come through Moosa, then, your news can't be important and you
should have given consideration to the fact that this assembly was being
addressed by the Sultan of Granada."

"But when you come to know the circumstances in which I have come, then, you
will certainly forgive my audacity."

Al-Zeghel said, "Go ahead. Say what you have to."

After looking around the newcomer said, "Not here."

Sounding upset, Al-Zeghel said, "Come along with me."

Moving aside from the crowd, Al-Zeghel looked at the newcomer and said,
"Before giving me any bad news tell me who you are first, so that I can weigh
how important this is and also remind myself that people who spread rumors
during wartime are dealt with severely."

The newcomer said, "Had you looked carefully, you would have recognized me. I
am the son of the Palace Warden of Al-Hamra. I am a student of Habeera Bin
Saeed. For a few days I had been propagating jihad with Moosa...

A lot of the men here in the army recognize me, but if the terrible news that
I have come here with were to be proved wrong, then, I would be more than
happy to get hanged. I pray that my coming here is merely a dream and whatever
I have seen and heard in Granada is also a dream." Tears were rolling down the
newcomer's eyes.

Meanwhile, Al-Zaghairi approached close to them. He recognized the youth from
a distance and said, "Sulaiman! I hope all is well?"

Sulaiman looked at Al-Zaghairi for a moment then turned his attention back to
Al-Zeghel, "I have come with terrible bad news. There has been a revolt in
Granada."

Al-Zeghel cried out and said, "No! No! You must have dreamt. A revolt in
Moosa's presence is impossible. You have dreamt. You are a spy of the enemy
and want to distract us from the war front. Say that this is a lie." A
distraught Al-Zeghel was shaking Sulaiman by holding both his arms. And
Sulaiman was repeatedly saying again and again, "If only this was a lie. But
it is not a lie. If only it were a lie."

"But Moosa and revolt? This is impossible. You are insane."

Sulaiman said, "Moosa has been imprisoned by Abu Abdullah."

Al-Zeghel pushed Sulaiman to the ground and said to Al-Zaghairi, "Take him
away. He is insane. Abu Abdullah can kill me, put his father in prison but he
can die for Moosa. Take this insane man away."

Sulaiman said, "By today evening there will be more people coming, confirming
the news I have given you. Abu Abdullah has announced his emirate. He has
released the rebels and appointed them in the positions of the Arab officials.
Some of those emirs who refused to recognize his emirate have been killed and
the rest imprisoned. Hispanian and Berber emirs have taken over the Al-Hamra
and they are making the people of their tribes fight the Arabs in the city. I
can't say how many houses have been burned and how many people have been
killed. I am afraid this fire must have also spread to other nearby
settlements around Granada."

Abul Hassan could not continue his speech for long. Every now and then his
attention was diverted towards Al-Zeghel and Al-Zaghairi and when they were
approaching him with heads bowed down, after talking to Sulaiman, his heart
started throbbing and his voice plunged. By looking at Al-Zeghel's face it was
not difficult to assess that the messenger had not come with any good news. He
ended his speech, raised his hands and supplicated for victory and looked
towards Al-Zeghel with answer-seeking glances.

Al-Zeghel moved forward and said, "Let us go!"

Abul Hassan said, "Where? Is everything okay?"

"Let us go to your tent."

With Al-Zeghel's grief-stricken voice Abul Hassan's heart kept sinking. He got
off the stage and walked with him towards the tent. A few chiefs wanted to
join him but gesturing with his hand Al-Zeghel stopped them and said, "You all
gather in my tent. We will be there shortly."

After covering a short distance, Abul Hassan enquired, "Before giving me any
bad news at least let me know where this messenger has arrived from. After
such a great victory we should not be disturbed by trivial incidents. Tell me,
what's the matter? Your silence is becoming unbearable for me."

Al-Zeghel did not reply. Sulaiman, who was still standing there, joined them
after a cue from Al-Zeghel.

Abul Hassan moved his attention towards Sulaiman and said, "Where have you
come from? Stop staring at me and tell me. Have you not come with the news
that a city or village near the border has fallen from our grip and the
Christians are avenging their defeat from the Muslims of that place?"

Instead of replying, Sulaiman looked at Al-Zeghel, who gestured by shaking his
head to remain silent.

Abul Hassan could not bear it anymore. He yelled and said, "Al-Zeghel! Haven't
we been breastfed by the same mother? Don't I have the courage to bear the
news that you have just heard? Has this messenger come with the news of an
earthquake? Has a fire broken out it Al-Hamra? Did Abu Abdullah have an
accident? By God, any such news won't be able to disturb me and if this
messenger has arrived with the news that some Christian troops have taken over
an unguarded fort of ours near the border then you could have given me this
news in front of the army. To face this new scenario, we could have delayed
our decision to march forward by a day. Al-Zeghel! Why has your tongue gone
mute? Tell me what crisis has befallen that the swords of these mujahideen
can't compensate? Which palace has fallen that these mujahideen cannot
rebuild? The greatest wealth of a general are his soldiers. Besides Moosa and
Abdullah, the people who are dearest to me are with me. Nobody's death will be
unbearable for me. Didn't you see that there was not a trace of tear in my
eyes when Naeem Ridwan was being lowered into the grave, although he was no
less dear to me that Abdullah?"

Meanwhile, Abul Hassan's tent came near. A pessimistic Abul Hassan was pacing
swiftly towards the tent. After entering the tent and seating him on the
chair, Al-Zeghel said, "My brother! This messenger has come with the news of a
great calamity. Abu Abdullah has announced his emirate and after releasing the
rebels he has started a civil war in the city. The gates of Granada have been
closed for us. Moosa is in Abdullah's custody."

These words fell upon Abul Hassan like lightening. He suddenly got up only to
tremble back into his seat. He tried to speak but became tongue-tied. He
stared at Al-Zeghel and Sulaiman with wide-eyed glances. He was reading the
writings of his fate on their melancholy faces.

Al-Zeghel said, "Now, I can't understand how I should break this news to the
army. We can't even hide this news for long. More people will arrive today
before the evening. I fear, like Granada, here too the swords of Arabs and
non-Arabs soldiers might clash against each other. The chiefs of the army are
gathering in my tent. First, get their oath of allegiance and then unravel the
news to them. Today, only if Moosa were here. Don't be pessimistic. I am sure
the news of the victory at Loja would once again rejuvenate the flames of
faith among the people of Granada. They will revolt against Abu Abdullah and
open the gates of the city for us. Get up and be brave! This is no time to
think!"

Abul Hassan's lips were moving but his voice was lost. Sulaiman whispered,
"Call in the physician. The Sultan is not well."

Al-Zeghel bowed and looked at his brother and quickly went out and said to the
guard, "Call Bashir Bin Hassan immediately. He must be taking care of the
wounded. Tell him that the Sultan is not well. But say this in private. Not in
front of anyone."

After a while Bashir Bin Hassan entered the tent. After looking at the
Sultan's condition he said to Al-Zeghel, "He has had a paralysis attack but
it's not a severe one. God willing, he'll soon be fine. It seems that he has
received a big shock."

After a while Al-Zeghel said to Sulaiman, "Go and take some rest but don't
reveal this matter to anyone." Then he turned his attention towards Bashir Bin
Hassan and said, "If my presence is not required here, then, I would like to
be excused for a while."

Bashir Bin Hassan said, "The Sultan's glances are frozen on you. I think your
absence from here for a while would be better for him. His attention could be
diverted to something else."

When Al-Zeghel entered his tent, all the high ranking army officials were
gathered there. They had surrounded Al-Zaghairi and were pounding him with
questions while he was repeatedly yelling back and saying, "I don't know.
Sulaiman wanted to say something only to the Sultan."

Everyone became silent on seeing Al-Zeghel. After a while Al-Zeghel left the
tent once he had taken an oath of allegiance and after breaking the awful news
of Granada to them. The chiefs also moved in the direction of their respective
tents. By noon, this news was known to the entire army and a little before
evening a few men arriving from Granada had also confirmed this news. The very
soldiers who moments ago were dreaming of raising their flag over the Royal
Palace of Castile and given Aathan in the mosques of Seville and Cordova, were
now contemplating on how to save their homes from destruction. The very poets
who had penned ballads praising the mujhahideen of Loja were now writing
elegies of Abu Abdullah's treachery and betrayal. After a brief smile the star
of fate of Andalus became oblivious into the clouds of misfortune.

The next day, with Bashir Bin Hassan's messiahship, Abul Hassan regained his
lost voice. His first words were, "O my son! What have you done? The throne
that you tried to snatch was actually yours but your desire to become king has
destroyed the future of the Muslims of Andalus. I pray to God what you have
sown will not be reaped by the Muslims of Andalus. My son! My Abdullah! But
you are not mine." Abul Hassan tossed, hid his face in the pillow and sobbed.

After a couple of days, the effects of paralysis withered away from him, but
even at the age of sixty, the spark of life that was the envy of every youth
had become cold. Just one accident had reduced this sword-toying mujahid into
someone who was compelled to walk with the support of a cane.

The majority of the chiefs of the army's decision was to move towards Granada
and send a delegation to Abu Abdullah after encamping at a city close to it.
They opinioned, "If he does not come to the right path, then, there would be
no other option but to fix his crookedness with the swords. God forbid, if the
need arises to go to war then the people of the city would certainly rise
against Abu Abdullah. The only remedy to the ill-feeling spreading among the
soldiers due to the tumultuous events in Granada is to take over the Sultanate
immediately otherwise it wouldn't come as a surprise if Abu Abdullah allies
himself with the Christians and we are left nowhere."

Abul Hassan agreed with this decision but before departing an incident
happened that broke his back.

A day before Abul Hassan decided to leave for Granada, a group of a few
horsemen from Granada met Abul Hassan and after speaking a lot of ill about
Abu Abdullah assured Abul Hassan that they were ready to spill the last drop
of their blood for his sake and even the people under their influence in
Granada were waiting for Abul Hassan to arrive. Abul Hassan treated them with
great respect and dignity but after staying with Abul Hassan's army for four
days, they had succeeded in their designs. Abu Dawood had sent them to create
a rift among Abul Hassan's troops. They first provoked the Arabs saying that
their brothers were being killed at the hands of Berbers and native Muslims.
Then they said to the Berber and native Muslims that Abu Abdullah's government
would be a mercy for them. He had suspended high ranking Arab officials and
appointed ones from their people. It would be in their best interest to go to
Granada and swear allegiance to Abu Abdullah. To some of the chiefs they
offered high offices and to the ones who wouldn't fall to any fraud, they
would coerce them by saying that any official who sided with Abul Hassan, his
family and friends in Granada would face the severest of punishments at the
hands of Abu Abdullah. The loyalties of those lower in the hierarchy was
bought with gold and silver. They carried out this task so cleverly that Abul
Hassan's loyalist didn't even get a clue of it. First, they looked for those
people who were already under their influence. Then, with their assistance
they kept deluding the others.

One evening Abul Hassan's army encamped at a distance of twenty miles away
from Granada. In the third part of the night Abul Hassan got to know that
eight thousand of his army's Berbers and Hispania were deserting and leaving
towards Granada.

Al-Zeghel entered Abul Hassan's tent as soon as he got the news of this
development. After a while a few more officials of the army gathered there.
Al-Zeghel's advised to block the path of the traitors and make them
understand. And if they refused to listen, then war should be waged against
them. Some chiefs agreed while some disagreed. Finally, Abul Hassan said in a
feeble voice drenched in grief and sorrow, "Let them go. For as long as I
live, I will not permit the swords of Muslims to clash with one another."

After facing such drastic events, Sultan Abul Hassan moved towards Malaga. The
ruler of Malaga had already announced his revolt against Abu Abdullah. He
received the Sultan with great enthusiasm and emptied his palace for him.

In a few days, chiefs from the nearby areas came to their Sultan pronouncing
their allegiance to him.

The very Sultanate whose people only a few months ago had risen to conquer all
of Andalus was now divided into two. Granada and the suburbs was under Abu
Abdullah's control while Abul Hassan's government was in Malaga.

The amount of grief Ferdinand had of his defeats was less than the immense
happiness he had of Abu Abdullah's revolt and so he started preparing to
deliver a final blow to Abul Hassan.

Maybe Abul Hassan would never have given up hope no matter how major a defeat
he would have taken at the hands of the enemy. But this failure, whose reason
was his own son, was unbearable for him. He was no longer interested in his
present nor in his past. His brother and his diehard supporters kept consoling
him. Gradually, he declined to see people wishing to meet him. In isolation he
would spend most of his time shedding tears. Little by little he started
loosing vision.

One day Al-Zeghel and Badr Bin Mughira entered his room. When Al-Zeghel
started the conversation by talking about his own future course of action, the
Sultan said tearfully, "O my brother! Talk about something apart from this. We
can fight with the enemy but not with our fate."

Badr Bin Mughira replied, "The mujahid carves out his destiny with the point
of his sword."

Abul Hassan replied, "But my sword has been broken."

Badr said, "You should not despair. In this world, every great man has to face
such events."

"Don't drag those beings in the line of great men whose son is Abdullah. Go and
leave me in isolation for I have nothing to offer but tears." Saying this, the
Sultan turned his face the other way. Bashir Bin Hassan tiptoed into the room
and whispered, "The Sultan's condition is not good. Your talk would only
aggravate his physical and spiritual condition. The only remedy for him is to
bring Abdullah onto the right path."

Badr Bin Mughira looked at Al-Zeghel and said, "Abdullah can be brought to the
right path."

The Sultan gave a startled look at Badr Bin Mughira and said remorsefully, "If
only someone could make him understand but he is not one of those who would."

Badr Bin Mughira said, "He would be compelled to."

"But I do not want a civil war among Muslims."

Badr Bin Mughira said, "In a few days if he tries to have the correct
assessment of his strength against ours, then it would not reach a point for a
civil war among Muslims."

After this meeting, Al-Zeghel, Badr Bin Mughira, Al-Zaghairi and other army
officials decided, in a council, to restructure the army from scratch.

Al-Zeghel sent a delegation to specific chiefs of the entire Sultanate. Badr
Bin Mughira's fighters grouped into small bands and began propagating jihad.

Badr Bin Mughira personally left Malaga with five hundred of his fighters and
reached the suburbs of Granada where he started the mission of mustering
public opinion against Abu Abdullah.

Abu Abdullah's troops tried to block their path but in vain. There were minor
skirmishes at a few places between Abu Abdullah's troops and Badr Bin
Mughira's cavalry where Badr Bin Mughira's cavalry defeated them and left them
in the vicinity of the four walls of Granada.

After a few weeks of running around, Badr Bin Mughira, with the cooperation of
the people living in the settlements near Granada, was able to completely
cut-off all routes leading to it. The farmers also cooperated with him. They
refused to send their produce to Granada. Seeing the effects of drought in the
city, the people of Granada's suppressed resentment against Abu Abdullah
gradually began to emerge and some of them began fleeing towards Malaqa.

Feeling the sensitivity of the situation, Abu Abdullahsent five thousand
troops to crush the Frontier Falcon but after a week helearned that two
thousand out of them had joined Badr Bin Mughira while therest, after being
defeated, burned a few settlements of the farmers and were ontheir way back.
