
# Crime and its Punishment

The next day John Michael's maidservant brought a letter to Maria from him.
Reading the letter she could not believe that it was written by Michael. Every
now and then she would enquire from the maidservant, "Is this really written
by him?" And the maidservant would have to swear by the Holy Mary to convince
her.

John Michael had apologized with extreme humility and modesty. He had written,
"I am at a loss of words to express how regretful and sorry I am for my
behavior. I am extremely ashamed. As you know I was drunk, therefore, I hope you
will consider my error forgivable. I promise never to set foot in your house
after drinking alcohol and wouldn't dare speak to Angela till such time she
herself says with her own tongue that there has been a very significant change
in my character. I will wait patiently till such time she is compelled and
starts considering me a human being by my behavior, I know that after last
night's incident the door of your house is closed for me but rest assured that I
wouldn't dare knock that door until you don't call me yourself."

Before the arrival of John Michael's maidservant, Maria had already written a
long letter to her husband but she decided against sending the letter through
her messenger once she received Michael's letter.

When she was thinking of a reply to Michael's letter her maidservant informed
her that the Bishop was waiting for her in the meeting room. Maria said to John
Michael's maidservant, "You leave. I will send him a reply to the letter."

Maria came down and entered into the meeting room. After an exchanged of
customary talks, the Bishop said, "Only a while ago I received a letter from
John Michael. He writes that last night he was not in his senses and he regrets
it deeply. He has requested me to convey his apologies to you."

"He has sent me this letter too. Here, read it." The Bishop took the letter from
Maria's hand and after taking a cursory look at the letter, he said, "He has
written similar things to me and I have come to ask whether you have sent a
letter about last night's incidents to your husband."

"No. I had written the letter but haven't sent is as yet."

"Has Angela read the letter?"

"No."

"Please call her. I want to say a couple of things to her."

"I have no objection in complying to your orders but at the moment I don't think
she would like to hear anything related to John Michael."

"I have not come here as John Michael's emissary."

"Fine. Let me call her."

The Bishop said, "Take this letter. It would be better for Angela to read the
letter before she comes to me."

Maria went upstairs to call Angela.

Angela was quite impressed by what the Bishop had said last night before
leaving, but once Maria informed her that the Bishop wanted to meet her after
handing her the letter, she immediately said, "If the Bishop has come as that
drunkard's emissary, then, I will never meet him. Yesterday he was saying that
he would resign from the post of the Bishop of Loja and now doesn't he have any
shame for providing this mean service for that hateful person?"

Maria replied, "Angela, this letter was brought to me by John Michael's
maidservant. If you don't believe me, then, ask your maidservant. The Bishop is
not connected to this letter."

"So have you replied to this letter?"

"So far I have not given any reply. I had shown this letter to the Bishop. He
said that Michael has written a similar letter to him too."

"Then he must have come to make a reconciliation between us?"

"You should not doubt his intentions without meeting him."

"Let us go." Angela said while getting up.

As soon as he saw Angela, the Bishop asked, "Daughter, yesterday I had told you
that I had decided to resign from my position but today I got a letter from John
Michael. He has expressed severe regret for his behavior. If this change is not
sudden and temporary then I should not be hasty in submitting my resignation.
Apart from that, I also think that I should be in Loja until your father's
absence. Even your mother has just shown me a letter from him."

Angela said, "I have also seen that letter."

The Bishop replied, "What's your opinion about the letter?"

Angela replied, "All I think is that circumstances have compelled him to adopt
the slyness of a fox instead of the viciousness of a wolf. He has merely changed
his modus operandi but hasn't changed himself. He is weaving a web for the prey
he couldn't kill with his claws. And I consider a silent, web-weaving spider
more dangerous that a hissing python."

"It is possible that you are correct. Besides God no one knows the true
condition of the hearts. In this case, my sympathies are with you people. The
advice that I want to give you and your mother is to give a reply to his letter
in a way that he doesn't get infuriated. I would not advise you to socialize
with him but I will also not advise you to use harsh words in a reply to his
letter. Some jolts in life get a person on the straight path. Possibly,
yesterday's incident might change his life. Even if the change in his behavior
is temporary and until such time he is the governor of the city and lives so
close to you, I want him to remain a peaceful neighbor. Our armies are going to
attack Granada. Abu Dawood's engagements in Seville are such that he might not
return before Granada's victory. If you proceed with caution in his absence,
then, I'm hopeful that he won't bother you."

Angela said, "He has promised that he won't bother us again and until he keeps
his promise there is no need to be at loggerheads with him. If you think that
any reply from my mother can change his barbaric nature then get it written and
send it to him but as far as I am concerned, even if Michael worships for a
thousand years and I witness with my own eyes that angels descend from the sky
to offer salutations to him, even then, I will consider him to be hateful."

A month after this incident, Ferdinand had attacked Granada. After vowing not to
return without conquering Granada, Queen Isabella and the King had entered the
arena with all their might. Leaving Seville, Abu Dawood had made a city that was
a few miles away from Granada, a base for his activities. In the past four
months, he had already trained several spies and sent them to Granada. He wrote
telling his wife that Granada would be conquered before their anticipated time
and that the King had promised to make him the Regent of the Sultanate.

For about a month, Maria did not face any problem from John Michael in Loja.
Since the last meeting there was a significant change in his attitude. Once a
day his maidservant would come and enquire if there was anything they needed or
a problem they faced. Maria would thank her in return. Personally, John Michael
would keep aloof from them. After a few weeks, Maria was convinced that he was a
man of his word and that he wouldn't set foot in their house without an
invitation. At times she would be glad that this change was because of Angela
but her heart would sink at the thought that there was no way Angela would agree
to marry him. She would feel sorry for John Michael.

John Michael would now spend most of his night with his merchant friend and his
attitude towards helpless girls of the city had become even more barbaric. Maria
was oblivious to this but the news of the plight of the Muslims of the city
would, one way or another, reach Rabia who would convey it to Angela and
Angela's hatred for John Michael became intense by the day.

One day the Bishop told Maria that John Michael would be leaving for the
battlefield in a day or two and a new man from Castile would be taking his
place. The next day Maria received an invitation from the city inspector's wife
to attend a farewell function in honor of John Michael that would take place in
the evening. Maria tried to persuade Angela and Rabia to attend the function but
they refused. Maria tried to make Angela understand, "Daughter, now he is going
to war. You should not have any ill-feeling towards him in your heart. All the
respectable people of the city would be gathered there. If you don't go, people
would think that there has been some issue between the two of you."

But Angela stubbornly stood by her decision. Maria was compelled to go alone. In
the evening, when Maria mounted her coach and was leaving the fort, she saw John
Michael at the gate. He stood in their midst of a few soldiers of the army,
talking to them. Maria ordered the servant to halt the coach and while peeping
outside, she called Michael by waving her hand. 

John Michael went close to her and said, "I believe you are going to the
inspector's place?"

"Yes, but I will always resent that you did not tell me that you are leaving."

"Leaving Loja without saying goodbye to you was no easy task but I had vowed not
to bother you until and unless Angela doesn't call me. And a knight has to keep
his word."

Maria said, "Angela has changed a lot now. She wouldn't object calling you over
once you're back from the war. Maybe, I'm going before time. When will you
arrive there?"

"I'm waiting for a few friends. You carry on. I am coming. But how come you are
alone?"

"Yes! I regret that Angela is not well otherwise she was ready to come along
with me."

Michael said, "She falls sick a lot. She needs treatment. Okay, carry on."

When Maria's coach had travelled a distance, then, Michael said to his
companions, "She needs a physician and I have cured a lot of patients."

Rabia and Angela were having food in a room in the upper story when suddenly
they heard some noise coming from downstairs. Rabia was startled and said,
"Maybe someone is fighting with Ahmed."

Angela said, "This must be James. I'll straighten him up today. Sometimes I get
upset with Ahmed too. He's strong as an elephant but still he takes a beating
from every servant."

Rabia said, "Every Muslim here considers a Christian to be his master."

Angela said to the maidservant, "Go and call James. I will fix him up today."

But suddenly someone's footsteps were heard in the stairway and Angela said,
"Wait! I think he's coming here himself. Now he'll complain against Ahmed."

After a second, Rabia, Angela and the maidservant were dumbfounded, looking
towards the door. Instead of the servant, it was John Michael who stood in front
of them. Angela stood up. 

"You!" she said in frightened voice.

"Yes, me! But why have you gone pale? I have come to enquire about your
well-being. No, I have come to treat you. You are always sick."

John Michael took a step forward while Angela took four backwards. In the
meanwhile, Rabia ran near the door of the room in the back. The maidservant
stood trembling severely in her place.

John Michael said, "Angela! Running and shouting won't do you any good. No one
can come to your aid at this time. Your servants are in the custody of my men,
your mother has gone to the inspector's place to attend my farewell ceremony.
Until I don't go there she will not be able to come here."

John Michael took a few steps forward and Angela ran and stood in a corner. She
yelled, "You are a savage. You are mean. You are intoxicated in wine!"

Instead of replying to Angela, he turned his attention to the maidservant and
said, "What are you looking at? Run away from here!" The maidservant took off.

Michael stepped forward again and cornered Angela and took her into another
corner of the room. Then he looked at Rabia and said, "You are her sister? The
people aren't wrong in what they say. God has divided all the beauty of Andalus
between the both of you but at the moment I have come only for Angela. You may
go."

But Rabia didn't budge from her place. Michael shouted, "Go!"

Rabia looked at him with extreme contempt and said, "You are so brave. Compared
to women, you are indeed very brave. You merely brought along a few men to
attack a girl whereas an entire army was needed for this mission. Why don't you
take out your dagger? Angela! Tell him that your hands are empty. Ferdinand's
knight's blow should not go in vain or else one feat of bravery would be
discounted from the history of the church."

Trembling in rage Michael said, "You tongue-lashing female! Be quiet. You don't
know me."

Rabia said, "I do know you. You are a brave knight. You are the governor of this
city. The church is proud of you. The church is proud of the fact that you have
colored its flag with the blood of the honor of innocent girls. The church is
proud that its ship is afloat in the sea of blood of the innocent because of
bravehearts like you. I know your type. You are a lamb when competing with men
and lions when competing with women."

Michael advanced forward like a wounded beast, got hold of Rabia with both his
hands and after shaking her violently, pushed her into the rear room. Rabia fell
on her face. In the meantime, Angela had escaped from the door that opened
towards the stairs. As soon as Michael moved his attention to her, Rabia quickly
got up, closed the door and locked it.

Michael ran after Angela. Angela yelled for help as she ran down the stairs.
Halfway down the stairs she realized that there was no one to come to her aid.
She thought of Rabia and her feet halted there itself. Suddenly she heard the
laughter of a few men coming from downstairs. The torches of the stairs were
alit. She suddenly struck the torches down with her hand. Michael's men were
laughing as they proceeded up the stairs. Angela thought that if she could reach
the outer gallery of the upper story, then her screams could reach the guards at
the gates of the fort. She tiptoed upstairs. She heard a frightful laughter
right at the last turn of the stairway. She had come into the firm grip of
Michael's hands. She was yelling, "You tyrant! You treacherous person! Rascal!
Let me go! Let me go!!"

John Michael called out to the soldiers who were coming up, "Now go and stand at
the gate of the fort. Don't come here unless I order you to."

The soldiers returned and Michael took a screaming, yelling Angela within an
iron grip of his hands and brought her to the same place where a while ago Rabia
and Angela were having their food. Closing the door with one hand, he said,
"Yelling won't harm me. You are the one who'll be disgraced. I'm not afraid of
your father. He has sold his conscience to us and we have paid him its price.
The King won't entertain any complaints from him against me."

Angela scratched his face with both her hands and said, "Let me go! You savage!
You tyrant! Rascal! Let me go!" She was been agonized in the firm grip of his
hands.

Suddenly John Michael yelled in pain. His finger had come between Angela's
teeth. He pressed Angela's throat with the other hand and freed his finger.
Michael became distraught after that. He had Angela by the throat with one hand
and was ripping her dress with the other.

Suddenly the door of the rear room opened. Rabia tiptoed forward with a javelin
in her hand. Michael's back was facing her but Angela saw her. Rabia came close
to Michael and rendered a blow with the javelin with all her might and he
stumbled and fell to a side. The sharp end of the javelin had pierced across his
chest. He was tormenting with pain.

Angela embraced Rabia. She was sobbing. "Rabia! Rabia! I thought you left me and
ran away."

She was saying, "I took time searching for a javelin. I had to go down to
Ahmed's room from the stairs in the corner."

"But you have killed him. What will happen now? No! No, Rabia! You have not
killed him. I have killed him and I will be able to justify this in front of the
biggest courts as to why I have killed him. His soldiers will arrive shortly. Go
to your room. Hurry up, Rabia. For God's sake."

Rabia calmly replied, "No Angela! Don't deprive me from the reward of this
deed."

"No, Rabia! I won't let you do this. No, no, never." Angela burst into tears.

Rabia said, "Angela, your dress! Your entire body is being revealed. Come on,
change your dress."

Angela said, "First promise me that you will remain silent in this matter."

Instead of replying to her, Rabia dragged her by the arm towards her room. No
one was in the gallery. Michael's men were raising a hue and cry downstairs.

 The small room where Angela's clothes and other stuff was stored was behind the
 bedroom. Angela opened the door of this room. It was dark inside therefore
 Rabia grabbed a torch from the other room and placed it inside and said,
 "Quickly go inside and change your clothes. I'm standing right here."

When Angela was changing her clothes, Rabia closed the door behind her and
placed the latch. Angela was shouting from inside, "Rabia! Rabia! For God's
sake, open the door."

Rabia said, "Goodbye, Angela!"

She said from inside, "No, no! We will be together in life and death. You are
betraying me. Rabia! My Rabia! My sister!" Angela was crying.

While wiping her tears Rabia said, "Angela! Why did you think that I will allow
you to commit suicide for my sake? Do you remember that you saved his life in
Al-Hamra? Even at that time I couldn't take anyone's obligation on him. I envy
your bravery. Angela! That was a favor I thought that I could never repay in
this life. You always had this impression about me that I'm weak-hearted and
maybe even now you might be feeling sorry for my weakness, but, I know my duty."

Angela said from inside, "Rabia, open the door. I promise to remain silent."

"No, Angela! I know when they will be ripping my flesh apart like wolves, you
won't be able to take it. You won't be able to remain silent."

Angela said, "Rabia! Listen to me! Isn't it possible for us to run away from
here?"

"You know that such a feat can never be successful. Firstly, this is not
possible and by some way we do manage to escape from this fort, there won't be a
place of refuge for us in the city. By morning, every home would be guarded.
Even if we successfully escape from the city even then by morning the entire
city would be pursuing us like hunting dogs. Angela! I haven't committed any
sin. Why should I run away from death? Why shouldn't I say in the court of Loja
that I have done my duty? I won't even plea them for mercy. My father is a
traitor of the nation. He should get the reward of his treachery. Maybe with my
sacrifice the door of repentance will open up for him."

Rabia heard some noise of men coming from the gate of the palace. She ran
towards the gallery and after taking a look in the back, returned and said,
"Angela! People are gathering at the gate. Maybe someone from the inspector's
house has come to enquire about him and maybe one of Michael's men might come up
to inform him. I will leave. Goodbye, Angela!"

"No, no, Rabia! Listen to me! I will support you till death embraces you. Rabia
wait. Rabia! Rabia!!"

Rabia had left.

After bidding farewell to Angela, Rabia went to the room where John Michael's
corpse lay. His blood had thickened on the carpet. His face had become
frightful. Rabia got a sheet from the other room and placed it on his face while
she went and sat on a chair.

After a while she heard some footsteps on the stairs. Someone came near the door
and said, "Master! It is getting late. The inspector's men are enquiring about
you."

With a thumping heart Rabia got a hold of herself, stood up, opened the door and
while peeping outside said, "Come here. There is a dead body of a drunkard in my
room. See if you recognize him?"

The perplexed soldier entered the room. He looked at Rabia for a second and then
bent down and raised the sheet and said, "John Michael!" he yelled ghastly. 

Rabia said, "Do you know him?"

The soldier replied, "He is the governor of the city. He's a famous knight of
Ferdinand. He is the Queen's relative. Who has killed him?"

Rabia replied, "You have no right to ask me this. Go and inform the inspector."

"But we will all be hanged for this. It is important that we arrest the murderer
before we leave."

"I am the one who has killed him."

For a while the soldier was dumbfounded and kept staring at Rabia.

Rabia yelled and said, "Why don't you go? What are you gaping at? Don't you know
that the real ruler of this city is my father? He's not only the ruler of this
city but also a good friend of Ferdinand. Why did you take the responsibility of
guarding such a person who enters the homes of decent people while he's drunk?
Where were you when a helpless girl was screaming in this room? You were
downstairs having a good laugh. I order you to leave or else it won't be good
for you and see that until the inspector's arrival, none of your men are allowed
to come up."

The disturbed soldier could not decide his course of action. He left the room
while staring at Rabia.

A short while after the soldier's departure, Rabia got up and left the room. She
stood in the gallery and peeped outside. The sound of knocking was coming from
Angela's room. Rabia advanced towards her room but her feet stopped at the door.
She heard Angela's voice, "Rabia! Rabia!" Rabia stood there for a while in a
state of confusion and then tiptoed back.

From narrow and dark stairs at the corner of the gallery, she managed her way to
the terrace of the house. She ran a cursory look around in the enticing light of
the moon and then started looking towards the sky. Streams of light were gushing
from the forehead of the moon. The stars were smiling. This is how the world was
established and there were thousands of goods to fuel the desire of life. Rabia
was bidding farewell to all those interesting things. However, the focus of all
these interests was still there. The various accidents and incidents could not
take Rabia's desire for Badr bin Mughira away from her. The storms had passed.
Now she was contemplating calmly about her future. She did not fear the darkness
of the prison cell. She was not scared of being hanged or burned. The face of
death wasn't frightful for her. But standing at the gates of death with the
desire for Badr bin Mughira in her heart was indeed challenging for her. If only
she could see him before dying. If only she could say that she would be waiting
for him in the new life. If only she could live for him. If only these stars and
moon could remind Badr of her. If only they could tell him that there wasn't an
evening in her life in which she hadn't thought about him.

Rabia said in her heart, "But what am I thinking? Badr is not only my but also a
warrior of the nation. He is fighting for the honor and dignity of thousands of
girls like me. I am so naive. I am thinking that he too might be standing on the
top of some mountain and looking at this moon and these stars and all this might
be rekindling my thoughts in his heart. I am thinking that he might be listening
to my sighs and looking at my tears but this would be an insult to him. His
imagination can't be limited to me. At the moment he might be listening to the
screams of thousands of helpless girls. He must be seeing their tears. In this
storm of tears and sighs, the sound of my voice wouldn't even be recognizable to
him. Standing on a peak of a mountain, instead of mentioning my name to the
moon, he must be saying to it, 'You have seen the rise of my nation. Today have
a look at its fall. You have witnessed the majesty of Tariq and Abdul Rahman in
this land. Today have a look at Abu Abdullah's humiliation and disgrace. You
must have seen those mujahids who had burned their ships at the shores of
Andalus. Today have a look at these nation sellers who are receiving the price
of their nation's honor and liberty from the enemy. You have seen our cavaliers
take to the battlefield. Today also have a look at them converged within the
confines of the four walls of Granada. Do you recognize that this was that very
nation that used to remove the crown of emperors and place it on the heads of
slaves? Is this that very nation whose sons would obliterate mighty empires for
the sake of the dignity of a poor sister?'" 

After a while when Rabia was coming down the stairs, she was mentally relieved.
She was saying, "Rabia! During these trying times of communal strife, your life
is insignificant but if you want, you can certainly make your death a famous
incident in the history of Andalus. If death is inevitable, you should face it
with bravery. You have to prove that the hands of oppression are hate-worthy and
not fearful. Your's and Badr's aim in life is the same. He is fighting against
evil and you are sacrificing your life for the truth. On the Day of Judgment,
you would be able to grab his hem and say that we both were each other's
companions in the world."

The city's inspector, some army officers, the Bishop and some influential people
stood around Michael's corpse.

The inspector was scolding the soldier who had reported the incident, "You are
an idiot. There might be several ways of exit from this house. She has certainly
left the fort. You didn't even ask your companions to shut the gate of the fort?
My question is why didn't you arrest her?"

The inspector turned his attention to the other officers of the army and police,
"What are you all looking at? Go and seal-off the city and start searching the
homes of Muslims. Leave some men for searching this palace."

"There is no need to search the palace", Rabia said while entering inside from
the gallery.

Everyone looked at her dumbfounded. She calmly advanced forward. There was an
extraordinary dignity beaming from her face. 

The inspector said, "Did you kill John Michael?"

"Yes! I have killed this man who entered our house with shameless intentions."

"Was there anyone else who was involved with you in this murder?"

"No."

Maria dashed into the room breathlessly and nervously. "Rabia! Where is Angela?
Where did she go? What happened to her? For God's sake, tell me."

She replied, "Angela is here. Don't worry about her."

"But where is she?"

"She got a major shock when she saw this dead body. She was screaming and
running here and there. I have locked her in the storeroom next to her bedroom
but it would be better for her if you don't bring her here at the moment. I'm
afraid she might get another fit and fall unconscious."

Maria went running into Angela's room calling out, "Angela, Angela" and advanced
towards the door of the storeroom."

Angela yelled from inside, "Where is Rabia? For God's sake, open the door. I am
the one who killed him. I am the one who killed him. Rabia is innocent."

Maria's hand stopped at the latch of the door and she ran and closed the door
that opened toward the gallery.

On the other side, the inspector was in a bizarre situation. John Michael's
murder was no minor issue but his murderer was the daughter of a man whom
Ferdinand was very benevolent towards. Arresting and holding the governor's
daughter like an ordinary prisoner before a court decision would prove to be
difficult for him. Moreover, he was also afraid that if he didn't deal with this
properly not only the general opinion of the city's Christians would go against
him but the knights of all of Andalus would become his enemies. In the evening
when he saw that Maria was leaving by herself, John Michael had sent him a
message, "I might arrive late since I have to take care of something important
but I need to speak to Maria on something important, therefore, you should keep
Maria there with all means possible until I arrive." Now it became clear to the
inspector what that important task was. But despite being a drunkard and
characterless person, he was still a knight and Rabia, besides being Abu
Dawood's daughter, was a Muslim girl. Therefore, he anticipated that Abu Dawood
could reverse the ruling of any court against his daughter for the services he
had rendered.

When the inspector sought the Bishop's advice, he said, "In my opinion, she
should be confined to an isolated room in the fort until the court's ruling or
atleast she should not be kept with ordinary criminals until a new governor is
appointed. In the meanwhile, you can also get some instructions from the King
regarding this girl."

 

For a week, Angela was bedridden with high fever. Whenever she gained
consciousness, she would sit up saying, "Rabia! Rabia!" Sometimes in a fit of
excitement she would try to run out of her room, but would fall unconscious
after taking a few steps. At times, Maria would have to force her with the help
of the servants to make her lie in bed. She would shout in a state of
helplessness, "Leave me. Let me go to her. I am the one who killed Michael. He
was killed because of me. To save my life she's sacrificing hers." Maria would
run and close the door nervously. The ladies of the city would come to see her
but Maria would stop them with one excuse or the other from going to Angela's
room. Abu Dawood's arrival in these days was another one of Maria's concern. She
was afraid he might not sacrifice Rabia for the sake of Angela. Compared to
Angela he loved Rabia more, therefore, she did not inform him about this
incident. At first she was also afraid that Rabia would not stand by her
statement in court but now this danger had passed. In the court of priests,
Rabia had confessed to her crime.

Orders from Isabella for the court had already arrived to punish the murderer of
John Michael severely. The fervor of the Christians after John Michael's murder
was such that they had killed several Muslims before attending his funeral. The
city's inspector had already written to the ruler of Seville that if this girl
was punished immediately then there would be a danger of a law and order
situation in the city. Ferdinand got the news of this incident when he was in
the battlefield. Had the deceased been someone else, he might have tried to
cover it up but Michael was his knight. He was a close relative of the Queen and
she was not interest in knowing who the killer was and what her father's
services were. After all, John Michael was a knight and his killer, a Muslim
girl.

Had this incident occurred six months ago, then, maybe Ferdinand or the Queen
might have hesitated in hurting Abu Dawood's feelings but now he had been used.
Because of his tireless efforts, several nation sellers were born in every city
of Andalus. Those chiefs and religious scholars whom Abu Dawood had trained and
sent to create chaos among the people of Granada had now established direct
contacts with Ferdinand. The greed of a higher reward would prompt them to
apprise Ferdinand and the Queen about their activities instead of Abu Dawood.
The King and Queen were satisfied knowing that now they had several people that
could take Abu Dawood's place. They also knew that to crush the remainder of the
defensive force of Granada, they would require the swords of the soldiers and if
the killer of Michael is not punished then a negative sentiment would run across
the army. Great knights would go against them.

The Queen said to the King, "After all isn't the sole purpose of this war is to
show the Muslims the superiority of the might of the church. Isn't it an insult
to the church that a girl kills a knight like Michael and we aren't even able to
avenge it? Abu Dawood has sworn allegiance to the church. He has stated several
times in front of us that he has no concern for the Muslims whatsoever. The only
reason he's a Muslim is because in that garb he can deceive the Muslims and do a
great service to the church. The time of his trial has arrived. If he's not
deceiving us, then, he should have no concern for this girl who has killed one
of our best soldier. That girl is a Muslim and she has killed him because of
religious fervor. We have rewarded Abu Dawood very well for his services. We
made him the governor of Loja. We had given him the authority to spend as much
as he wants from our treasury. Loyalty demands that if we ask him to preside
over this case, then he should not hesitate to punish his daughter."

Ferdinand said, "I'm afraid when he'll come to me, I would be compelled to
change the court's decision."

The Queen angrily said, "You are the King and your Queen would never tolerate
that you become compelled to change the ruling of any court of the church for
the sake of a servant."

On the insistence of the Queen, the King sent orders to the new governor not to
delay in punishing the criminal by the court.

 

Rabia stood in front of the court. Crowds of men were gathered inside and
outside courtroom. The jury of priests had given their verdict to the Bishop.
Rabia had confessed her crime. After hearing the statements of the inspector and
Michael's servants, the court decided not to hear any more witnesses. Two days
ago the statement that Rabia gave had already made her deserve the severest of
punishments. She had ridiculed the court. She had insulted the church. She had
stated:

"I refuse to recognize this court that does permit a drunkard and scoundrel to
barge into people's homes and does as he pleases but does not permit a helpless
girl to raise her hand for safeguarding her honor. Where were you when this
knight of yours would break into people's homes? When innocent and helpless
girls would scream for you to come to their aid. When they would say,
'Wholesalers of justice and equality! Come. Our honor is being looted. Save us.'
There was no need for you to hold a trial for me. You could have certainly
punished me without a trial. To prove the superiority of the church you have
already sent several girls like me to the pangs of death. Your clothes are
stained with the blood of the innocent. A few drops of my blood can't add to its
ugliness. You can't do justice and I consider pleading you for mercy to be an
insult to humanity. So far you have not asked me why I killed him. You haven't
asked me with what intentions he had entered my room. All you need to know is
that I killed him. To save her honor, a Muslim girl has killed one of your
knights. You think that a pillar of the church has fallen after the death of
this beast? You are compelled to punish me. It's beyond you to provide justice
to me. You are the builders of a new church in Andalus. You have laid its
foundations with the blood and bones of the innocent. To pronounce the edict of
my death all you need to know is that I am innocent. All I have tried to do is
save my honor. I am a Muslim, therefore, my blood and bones can be used for the
construction of the church. I have only killed one John Michael but all of you
are John Michael. He would kill innocent Muslims intoxicated in wine, whereas
you pronounce edicts of death to the innocent sitting on seats of justice. He
defaced humanity and you slit the throats of the voice of truth and sincerity."

Two days after giving this statement, today, Rabia stood in the court to hear
the verdict of her case. In the capacity of the grand judge for the case, the
Bishop of Loja, John Lucas was not ready to read out the verdict given by the
new governor, Don Louis, which was endorsed by the rest of priests. His verdict
was to send the girl into exile. He had also tried to bring criminal charges
against John Michael. The governors and priests were of the opinion that Rabia
had enchanted John Lucas. Therefore, some other priest appeared on the seat of
the grand judge on the day of the verdict.

The people that had gathered inside and outside the court knew what the court
decision would be. Rabia had insulted the court of the church. She had killed a
soldier of the church. Some people found out the reason for Bishop Lucas's
absence and they believed that Rabia was a dangerous sorcerer. The people were
whispering to each other, "She will be hanged." "She will be stretched on an
iron frame." "She will be burned alive."

After ordering the people for silence, the judge read out the verdict. The
audience's eyes were on Rabia. Death had been pronounced on her but she stood
silently. When the judge said that the accused deserved the severest punishment
after insulting the church and the court but keeping her father's services in
mind the court decided to kill her instead of burning her alive, a young girl
tore forward through the lines of the crowd, came close to Rabia and yelled,
"Wait! Stop the murder of justice and humanity. I have killed John Michael."

Absolute silence spread over the court. 

Rabia looked at her in a shock. This was Angela. For a while, the priest judge
and the audience of the court were taken aback. Angela held a small cloth-bundle
pressed under her armpit.

Rabia addressed the judge and said, "Don't worry. She is my stepsister. These
events have had a major effect on her mind."

Angela took a step forward and said, "That is incorrect. That is a lie. Rabia
has done all this to save my life. She is innocent. I have killed Michael and
killing him was my duty."

The judge enquired, "Where were you all this time?"

Angela replied, "After Michael's murder, Rabia had locked me in a room. After
that I remained unconscious for a few days. My mother had placed a guard on my
room. Like my sister, she too wanted to save my life."

The judge said, "You still appear to be sick. Before taking your statement it is
important for the court to test your mental condition."

Angela said, "The only burden on my mind was that my innocent sister wants to
sacrifice her life for me. Now that burden is over."

"The court needs evidence."

"Evidence? Have a look at this!" Angela stepped forward and while placing the
bundle of her clothes on the judge's table, said, "Look at it carefully. This is
that same dress that I was wearing that night. Your brave knight had ripped it
apart. This dress will prove on whom the brave knight of the church had laid his
hands on before night fall."

Once again there was absolute silence in the court.

Maria entered the courtroom breathlessly, came forward and embraced Angela.
"Angela! Angela! My daughter you are unwell. Let's go home." Saying this Maria
was trying to pull her outside.

The judge said, "Wait! We would like to ask a few questions."

Angela shrugged her mother's hand off. With pleading glances Maria looked at the
judge and said, "My daughter has nothing to do with this murder. She is sick.
She is mentally unbalanced."

The judge opened the cloth-bundle and while showing the torn clothes to Maria
said, "Can you recognize who this dress belongs to?"

Instead of replying, Maria was looking toward Angela. Angela said, "Why are you
silent, mother? You had bought this dress for me yourself. You know everything
that happened. You know that he came looking for me and this was his second
assault. He insulted me in front of you on purpose the first time you invited
him over. The Bishop of Castile is a witness to the fact that I broke a flower
vase on his head to save myself. You have the letter in which he expressed his
regret for his behavior. Then to fulfill his evil designs he, very cleverly,
tried to keep you away from the house on that fateful night. You wanted to come
home but the inspector didn't allow you to do so."

Then Angela turned her attention to the judge and said, "The love that my mother
has for me might not allow her to speak the truth but Bishop Lucas is a witness
that Michael did not have good intentions regarding me. In the presence of
Bishop Lucas I had refused to marry him and he was looking for an appropriate
opportunity to avenge his insult."

Maria looked at the judge with acute helplessness and said "Holy Father! My girl
is innocent. She is under Rabia's magical spell. She has misguided her from her
religion. The effect of her magic spell is such that she reads the Quran and
performs the Muslim prayers surreptitiously. I wanted to get her married off
with Michael but Rabia misguided her. Rabia uses her power of magic to get
anything done from her. Angela is innocent. She does not know what she is
saying. All this is the effect of Rabia's magic. I'm afraid that even Bishop
Lucas might be under Rabia's magical spell. My daughter has been having fits of
madness ever since Michael's murder. She tries to run outside by breaking the
door. The dress that you are seeing has been torn by her in a fit of madness."

Angela threw a despising glance at her mother, then, turned towards the judge
again and said, "My sister has already taken my crime on her head. She wouldn't
have done that if she had ill-intentions for me. But instead of being impressed
by this, just to save my life, my mother is trying to put a veil on the face of
the truth. My mother thinks that since Rabia is Muslim the court will believe
every wrong thing about her. She's convinced that if no charge can be brought
against a Muslim girl, then proving that she's a sorcerer would be the easiest
to prove. But I announce in this court that like my sister, I too am a Muslim.
If Islam is a magic, then its effect have taken over me and no power on earth
can remove its effect. The only regret I have is that before this I have been
praying in hiding. This was my cowardice but now I know the true meaning of life
and death. Now I am afraid of nothing. If there is a punishment for becoming
Muslim then I'm willing to take it but as far as Michael's murder is concerned,
that was not a crime. He was a savage. He was a rascal. The only reason this
court is concerned about this matter is because he is a relative of the Queen.
Alas! If the Queen only knew that a woman, especially the one that has
proclaimed the Kalma-e-Tawheed, considers her honor and dignity dearer to her
than her life. The court of the church is only sorry that a hand that instilled
the fear of the church in the hearts of the people has been cut. But only if
those hands that ripped my dress apart had been raised against the daughters and
daughters-in-law of the church's torchbearers."

The judge, priests and the audience in the court did not have the strength to
bear it anymore. The judge thundered back and said, "Disrespectful girl! Shut
your mouth!"

But Angela's voice kept getting louder. In a feverish condition, she did not
know what she was saying. The city's governor, Don Louis, who had just received
news of a new complication in the case, was standing and listening to Angela's
speech at the door of the court. Angela was making fun of the church's justice
and equality. She had gone to the extent of saying that "you oppress the poor,
helpless and unarmed but become a lamb in front of the powerful. You got a
chance to govern after eight years but you proved that you were not competent
for it."

Don Louis stepped forward and said, "I can't bear this contempt of the court.
This girl has proven that she deserves the worst of punishments. She is giving a
bad name to the church. She is a traitor of the kingdom. It is not important for
us to know what link she has to Michael's murder. I want the case of these two
girls to be reanalyzed."

Angela turned her attention towards Don Louis and said, "If your church is not
earning a bad reputation from its deeds then it doesn't have to worry about my
words. If your government patronizes the oppressor and doesn't give the
oppressed a right to plea, then, I am a rebel. I have the right to insult a
court that permits a mad dog to tear my flesh apart but does not allow me to
break its head."

On the governor's cue, the soldiers dragged Angela out of the court. She kept on
yelling, "You are oppressors! You are savages! You are that coward who fears to
look at their face in the mirror." Maria fell down unconscious. The soldiers
picked her up and took her outside. Rabia was still standing in the court. The
governor stepped forward and said something in the judge's ear. The judge shook
his head, turned his attention to Rabia and said, "Do you confess that Angela
murdered John Michael?"

Rabia replied, "I have finished my statement. The court has already pronounced
its verdict on me. Therefore, I don't think it is important for me to say
anything more. Whatever Angela has said is in a state of illness. She has
nothing to do with Michael's murder."

The judge enquired, "Is it correct that Angela has strayed away from her
religion?"

"No, Angela has not gone astray. She had adopted a true religion."

Again the governor stepped forward and said something in the judge's ear, who
shook his head and said, "Due to an unprecedented change in this type of case,
the court retracts its verdict regarding the accused Rabia. After hearing the
statement of the accused's stepsister, it is the court's opinion that both these
sisters are involved in the conspiracy to murder John Michael and apart from
this they are guilty of revolting against the government and spreading hatred
against the church. To give the police a chance to investigate, the proceedings
of the court are adjourned till tomorrow."

Until evening, Maria kept screaming in a state of unconsciousness. When she
gained consciousness she was lying in a small room instead of her own room. Her
maidservant was sitting close to her on a chair. For a second, she kept looking
at the dilapidated ceiling of the room. Then she suddenly sat up and said,
"Where is Angela? Where am I?"

Filling her eyes with tears, the maidservant said, "Angela is with Rabia in
custody."

Maria recalled all the events of the court and she got off the bed and stood up.
"I will go to the governor. He cannot do this to my daughter."

The maidservant got up and while getting a hold of her hand said, "You are
unwell. You are not fit to go outside."

Maria said, "No, I'm perfectly fine but where am I? Maybe I fainted in the
court. Whose house is this?"

Without waiting for a reply from the maid, Maria started peeping out of the door
and then turned her attention to the maid and said, "No one is here. Who brought
me to this broken down house? Am I dreaming? How did the goods of my house come
to the porch of this house?"

The maid was sobbing away instead of replying.

Bishop Lucas entered into the porch and Maria came out on seeing him. She said
in a shocked voice, "Holy Father! What is going on? Where am I? The goods of my
house are scattered all over. The maid is not giving me any reply." 

The Bishop replied indifferently, "All this is a punishment for your deeds."

Maria became confused, took a step back and started staring at the Bishop with
extreme helplessness. A second later she ran towards the main door, and after
taking a look outside, turned her attention again towards the Bishop. "Holy
Father! Have mercy on me. Tell me what is going on? How did I come here? What
will happen to Angela? Save my daughter."

"No one can save your daughter now. You did not value your stepdaughter's
altruism. You accused her of being a sorcerer. Stupid woman! You thought that if
you slander a Muslim girl then it will hide Angela's crime in the eyes of the
court. If only you hadn't stopped Angela from going to the court on the first
day itself. At that time no one knew that she had become Muslim. You had enough
evidence that Michael had entered your house having bad intentions for Angela.
If you hadn't done this stupidity, this would have been a totally different type
of case. The people would have had the perception that Angela is a Christian
girl and even the King and Queen would not have had the courage to say that
whatever she did to save her honor was punishable. Now both of them are in
custody and what you got out of this stupidity is that the governor removed you
from the palace in a state of unconsciousness and sent you to this cottage."

Tears were gathering in Maria's stoned eyes. She stepped forward and falling at
the Bishop's feet, she said, "Holy Father! Please have mercy on me. Please save
Angela. For God's sake, save Angela. I can't believe that she has killed
Michael. But even if she really has killed Michael, even then, she is innocent.
Whatever Angela has done was to save her honor."

Lucas wasn't moved by Angela's tears. He took a step backwards and said, "Stupid
woman! Now what's the use of crying? Angela could have been proven innocent
despite this murder but now, because of your stupidity, she has been accused of
more serious crimes than murder. Insulting the church, hatred for her own
religion and conspiracy against the government are not trivial accusations.
Saving her life now is not in my hands."

Maria held Lucas's hem and said, "No, no, you can do a lot. You are the Bishop
of Loja."

"From today, I'm not the Bishop of Loja. I have refused to give a statement
tomorrow according to the wishes of the governor and subsequently I have sent my
resignation to the Lord Bishop. Hence, I have fulfilled my duty towards Angela
and Rabia. I have sent my written statement to the court. I have written how
shameless John Michael's intentions were for Angela. In my statement, I have
tried to prove Angela was justified in killing Michael. But since my statement
is not according to the wishes of the governor, therefore, I am sure the court
will suppress it. I am going to Abu Dawood. Maybe he can appeal to the King and
Queen for mercy despite the fact that the mission because of which he was given
so much importance has more or less been completed. Ferdinand has laid a siege
on Granada. Because of Abu Dawood's endeavors, an influential segment of the
people of Granada has become opposed to the war and the King is sure that the
victory of Granada is only a matter of a few days. A number of people in Abu
Dawood's group have now become his competitors. In such circumstances, I am not
optimistic that the King would entertain a plea of mercy by him but maybe there
might be still be an arrow in his quiver of wisdom that the King might find
useful and would be willing to look into his request. Now the important thing
that I came to tell you is that you have to go to the court tomorrow and say
that the court cannot give its verdict until I do not stand as a witness. If the
court overrules your objection and it becomes hasty in giving a decision, then,
ask for time to appeal to the King against the verdict. It is possible that the
court might not give you time for an appeal. But after this request of yours the
court will be compelled to get an endorsement from the King. In the meantime,
your husband will get time to run around. "

Appearing extremely obliged, Maria said, "Holy Father! You are so merciful. I
will not forget this favor of yours. When are you leaving?"

"I am leaving tonight."
