
# The Frontier Falcon

Muslims had ruled Andalus for the past eight centuries. The history of these
eight centuries are the rise and fall of a great nation, whose opening
chapters were inked with the blood of Arab conquerors and the great leaders of
the Umayyad dynasty. Now this great nation, whose grandeur would silence the
defiant waves of the Mediterranean, was writing its closing chapter with tears
of hopelessness. That tree of culture and civilization, grown by the
chivalrous Tariq Bin Ziyad, Moosa Bin Naseer and the successors of Abdul
Rehman, was now facing the strong and defiant winds of autumn.

The Muslims entered this country like a storm. When all the walls of
opposition broke down and the people of Spain laid their arms down in front of
the Arab horsemen, this storm changed to clouds of mercy and the barren lands
of Andalus transformed to a heavenly garden. In a country where humanity was
dying, trapped in barbarism, it became a torchbearer of Europe.

When the dark clouds of fear and barbarism dominated Europe, every house in
Andalus was lit with lanterns of science and knowledge. When majority of the
people of Europe covered their bodies with hides of animals, lived in forests
and caves, the people of Andalus spread drapery making and architecture to the
south of the Mediterranean. In Europe, where books and its readers could be
counted on fingers, in Andalus, it was quite impossible to find a person whose
house did not have a small library.

The Umayyad era was the golden age in the history of Andalus. Even today, when
a tourist visualizes the magnificence and splendor that is buried in the ruins
of Cordova, Seville and Toledo, he enquires with amazement 'Was this that land
where prosperity and progress left the ambassadors of Charlemagne awestruck?
Is the modern-day Spain and the Andalus of the Arabs the same land which was a
goldmine? The land where misery and poverty did not exist? The land whose
trade and commerce was spread all the way to Russia, Iran and China? The land
whose universities were renowned the world over and students of Aristotle and
Plato sat at the feet of its scholars?'.

The spirits of Andalus' historians, who maybe, each evening, wander around
these deserted places, reply to us saying, "Yes! This Spain is the same
Andalus that belonged to the Arabs, whose power and majesty has become a
legend of the past. This Rock of Gibraltar is the same one where Tariq Bin
Ziyad's ships had anchored. Cordova is that very city where the pompous courts
of Abdul Rehman III would leave the ambassador of great emperors absolutely
awestruck. This Andalus is the same, however, the nation whose sweat and blood
bestowed life and beauty to its ashes has been obliterated. Buried beneath
these ruins lie the bodies of the glorious builders who made this country a
tower of light for the rest of Europe".

World history depicts the rise and fall of nations but the rise and fall of
the Arab conquerors is the most interesting from which a lot could be learned.
That sun, that moon and those stars who, since the creation of Adam till today
must have witnessed with their unblinking eyes thousands of caravans on the
paths of progress and degenerations. If these celestial bodies have a heart,
then, the legend of the rise and fall of the Arab rulers, would certainly be
engraved on them.



In Andalus, after the victories of the Muslims, the initial period saw the
establishment of many small Christian kingdoms towards the northern border.
During the reign of powerful rulers, these kingdoms would become vassals to
the Islamic Sultanate of Andalus and during the time of weak rulers or during
the time of infighting among Muslims, these kingdoms would declare their
independence and carry out looting raids on the border areas. The era of the
Umayyad rule was a period of magnificence for the Muslims. Despite the
treacherous, clandestine activities of the small Christian kingdoms of the
north, the Umayyad emperors would still treat them with generosity.

After the decline of the Umayyad dynasty in the 5th century Hijri, the Muslims
of Andalus had reached the last stage of divergence and decentralization. The
great Andalus empire got divided into about twenty states. Alponso VI took
advantage of this dissent and united the northern Christian states of Asturia,
Leon and Castile to form an empire.

The autocratic rulers of Andalus, called upon Alphonso for assistance whenever
they lost to their neighbors. He would demand a price for his assistance to
pitch one ruler against the other. He did this to such an extent that almost
all the rulers of Spain became his subjects, and loot, murder and plunder
flourished after military check posts were established throughout the length
and breadth of the country.

During these troubled times, Yusuf Bin Tashfeen, the ruler of Algeria and
Morocco, came to the rescue of the Muslims. He rescued the Muslims from the
mighty claws of the Christians. However, he could not unite the imprudent
Muslims strategically. When all his strategies and efforts failed, he captured
Andalus and made it a province of his African empire.

The African dynasty of Al-Moravid that was founed by Yusuf Bin Tashfeen could
not be established for long. As soon as the nobles of Andalus sensed the
weakness of the rule, they quickly seceded and every major city became a
separate kingdom. At this critical stage, Abdul Momin tried to support this
falling building of the Muslims rule by defeating the conceited rulers of
Andalus' small kingdoms and laid the foundation of the Al-Mohad dynasty.

The Mohads repeatedly defeated the Christian attackers of the north. But
unfortunately, they governed being based in Africa. Therefore, their hold on
Andalus gradually became weakened and the conspiracies of the emirs of Andalus
increased.

In 1212, the Christians defeated the remaining Mohad armies at the battle of
Las Navas de Tolosa and after this several Muslims cities were captured by
them, one after the other.

From 1238 to 1265 the Muslims fought each other and during this time Ferdinand
III, the Christian king of Castile, and rulers of Aragon united themselves and
Cordova, Helenbesia, Seville and Mercia were conquered. For the Muslims, the
capture of Cordova and Seville by the Christians was no less than the capture
of Baghdad by the hands of the Tartars.

Now in Andalus their last protectorate was the Kingdom of Granada. This
kingdom spread from Montserrat to the coastal region of Almeria and from here
it stretched all the way to Gibraltar. The Muslims ruled Granada for another
two hundred and fifty years. Many people from the occupied territories came to
Granada believing it to be the last entrenchment of their self-defense and
they offered their services to the rulers of Granada although that sword of
the Muslims emirs which subdued the mightiest powers was now placed back in
its scabbard.

For about one and a half century the Kingdom of Granada was a target of much
internal squabbles among its selfish emirs and its border areas were a subject
to much looting, plunder and killings at the hands of Christians. At times,
the rulers of Granada defeated the Christians on a number of occasions but
Granada was deprived of an ambitious personality whose leadership would have
entirely stopped the threat posed by the Christians.

If an emir would be victorious against the Christians, the general public
would rally around him for a period of time but after a while this kingdom
would become an arena of jealousy and envy.

Inspite of the circumstances, Granada was the most advanced city in the fields
of arts and sciences not only in Europe but also in the entire world. Its
builders too were renowned around the world. Students from far and wide sought
education in its universities and Granada's surgeons and physicians were
second to none.

When any nation chooses for itself the path of freedom, prestige and
prosperity, then, knowledge and education work for it like a whip but when it
strays away from this path, then, these very arts and sciences become an
addictive drug and the deficiency of its actions is not even pricked by its
conscience.

In the 9th century Hijri and towards the end of the 15th century A.D., signs
of Granada's degeneration were becoming apparent quite rapidly. With the
matrimonial union of Ferdinand V and Isabella, two Christian kingdoms of
Aragon and Castile were united and the intense discord among the Muslims
proved to be the last blow to the glimmering flame of the Muslims.



Badr Bin Mughira was called the "Frontier Falcon" by the emirs and people of
Castile. Because of his unprecedented victories against the attacking
Christian troops, he became famously known by this title in Granada too. This
sixty miles long and forty miles wide mountain and forest was a home to these
independent individuals who were neutral towards Granada but continuously at
war with the neighboring Christian kingdoms. Before Badr his father Mughira
was the emir of the region, who had captured and annexed a number of Christian
regions into his kingdom. When the rulers of Granada tried to make him their
subject, he told the royal emissary that if the ruler of Granada stopped
paying tribute to Castile then this region would be theirs and that he would
join the army as an ordinary soldier who would take pride in waging war
against the Christians. However, unlike Granada he would not become slaves to
Castile. During those days Granada had become a center-stage of civil war and
the ruler of Granada was not courageous enough to unite the opposing emirs
against the Christians of Castile. Therefore, he sent a message across to
Mughira saying that he will not be a hurdle as long as Mughira's activities
were focused towards the Christians.

The subjugated Christians nobles of Castile could not form a united front
against Mughira because of their mutual rivalries and this gave him ample time
for making preparation. Some Muslims living under these Christian kingdoms
joined hands with him but while his ranks had swelled to about six thousand
soldiers a dramatic revolution was in the offing in Christian Andalus.

Owing to the marriage between Ferdinand V and Isabella, northern Christian
kingdoms created the union of Castile and Aragon, which became a major threat
to Muslim Andalus. Smaller Christian rulers appeared insignificant in front of
Ferdinand's rule. Compared to Granada's subjugated kingdoms, he considered the
smaller independent region of Mughira a greater threat. He also felt that to
conquer this region he would have to sacrifice a substantial amount of his
army.

Assessing the upcoming threat, Mughira started preparing mujahideen groups
from the length and breadth of Andalus. He delegated the protection of the
independent areas to his subordinate and guised as an ordinary merchant,
toured major cities of Andalus. Muslims of Cordova, Seville and other cities,
whose souls were suffocating in the chains of slavery committed themselves to
taking part in jihad under him and in due time would raise the flag of revolt
in their respective cities. Hence, Mughira realized that after living under
slavery in Christian Andalus for a long time, there were very few Muslims left
here who would be willing to live and die for Islam. The techniques adopted by
their Christian rulers to make Muslims strangers to their own religion proved
to be successful to a certain extent and now under Ferdinand different ways
were aggressively enforced to apostatize them. Muslim schools were banned from
teaching Arabic. They were not allowed to wear Arabic attire. They were forced
to send their children to Christian schools. There were some concessions to
those who had converted to Christianity. However, Muslims who opted to stay
were ordered to wear a special symbol. They were mocked in the markets. This
resulted in the formation of a community that appeared to be Christians but
performed the Islamic prayers in the privacy of their homes. For the remainder
of the Muslims the biggest threat was a nationalist movement. A group of
hypocrites raised the issue of Andalusian and non-Andalusians. These people
were uniting the Spanish Muslims against the Arab Muslims and the Christian
government, realizing that this would be to their advantage, started
patronizing them. These people used to spit-out venom against Arab and Berber
Muslims in the mosques and public places. In such circumstances many Arabs and
Berbers immigrated to Morocco while some settled in Granada.

Mughira was not very optimistic after he returned from his visit to the
different cities. From thirty cities about four thousand Muslims took pledge
at his hands for jihad. Therefore, he was not disappointed and vowed to spread
the message of jihad to every city of Andalus. He also felt that unless and
until the flag of revolt is not raised by a brave ruler of Granada, the Muslim
dream of a renaissance would remain unfulfilled. His biggest wish was that the
ruler of Granada declare jihad against the Christians and after which he would
join this army of diehard fighters. But Granada's throne was in the midst of
severe dynastic squabbles. Despite the circumstances, Mughira did not lose
hope. Every year he would disguise himself and tour different cities,
preparing people for jihad. On returning to his residence too, he would spend
most of his time writing letters to secret organizations in different cities
of Andalus.

One day Mughira was sitting in a room of an old fort in the forest. A soldier
came in and reported that a few soldiers have arrested and brought a stranger
from the border areas, who says that he has brought an important message from
Toledo. To further his activities, Mughira had not gotten a chance to visit
Toledo yet. At his signal the stranger was presented before him. At this point
in time Badr was fourteen years old and was sitting close to his father. The
stranger entered the room, looked around and said, "I would like to talk to
you in private."

Mughira gestured the soldier to leave and said, "Okay, speak up!"

The stranger gave an inquisitive glance towards Badr to which Mughira said,
"You don't have to worry about him. He is my son."

The stranger pulled out a letter from his pocket and presented it to Mughira
and said, "Kindly read this."

After reading the long communiqué, Mughira became contemplative. These last
words of the communiqué echoed in his ears: "Ten thousand diehard warriors are
waiting for you in Toledo. I am amazed that you have continued to ignore this
city. Compared to the Muslims of other cities, Muslims of Toledo are more
oppressed and within them are those who, instead of unjustly giving their
lives, would rather give precedence to courageously die fighting under you
flag".

Mughira stared at the messenger and said, "Go and tell them that I will surely
come. I shall arrive very soon."

Later, Mughira called in some soldiers and ordered them to escort the envoy
safely across the border.



Late into the night, Mughira moved out from his bed and began disguising
himself as a monk. A soldier came into the room and informed him that his
horse was ready.

"I am coming", said Mughira.

The soldier left the room. For a while, Mughira stood by his son's bed and in
the candle light kept looking at his innocent face. Finally, he bowed down and
kissed his forehead. Suddenly, Badr took a shiver, a little sneeze and after a
while opened his eyes. "Where am I?", he asked in a petrified voice and then
screamed, "Father!".

He embraced Mughira and said, "Father! Father! I will not let you go alone. I
will come along with you."

"What is the matter, son?", Mughira asked while embracing him.

"Father, I had a really bad nightmare. I saw that a pack of wolves was
"following us. You were left behind. They captured you. I wanted to return to
"save you but you were saying, 'Badr, you should run away. You should run
"away.' Father! If you would like to go then I will also come along."

"No, son!", Mughira said in a grieving tone.

Badr said, "Father! Last year you had promised that you will take me along if
you went to Granada."

"But, son, I am not going to Granada. I am going to Toledo and you could face
"a lot of dangers there with me."

"Father! I am not a coward."

"Son, if I were to go into the battlefield, I would have surely taken you
"along with me. But it's better that I go alone to Toledo."

"But I am sure that you won't go there alone."

"How is that?"

"My dream. Father, you yourself say that my dreams are not untrue."

Mughira thoughtfully said, "Why don't you interpret your dream in this way
that if you were to come along, then, we would have to face the wolves."

Badr thought and said, "Father, when will you return?"

Mughira replied, "I shall come back before the moon of the next month. But, if
I am delayed for any reason, then, don't come running after me. In my absence,
you will be the caretaker of this forest. I shall leave with the trust that
you will not be careless towards your duties. If you come after me, I will
think that you have not obeyed my orders."



A month had passed but Mughira did not return because at times such trips of
his that were scheduled for weeks would extend to months. Therefore, his
companions were not worried. But Badr's concerns were increasing by the day.
He proposed to the consultation committee to send a clever spy to Toledo but
they suggested that before a spy could be sent, it was important to establish
the identity of the person who had sent the invitation. Badr pulled out that
letter from a pile of documents inside a cabinet which invited his father to
Toledo but the writer gave a number of reasons to conceal his identity and
wrote, "If you think hard you will know who I am. I had met you in a rest
house in Seville. It was unfortunate that you did not reveal your name to me
before climbing on to your horse and I did not get a chance to speak otherwise
I might have proved that our goals are not different. Before I would say
anything at all, you galloped away. I did not follow you believing that you
might become suspicious of me. If you were to come to Toledo again, the way to
find me is that there is a rest house right outside the eastern gate of the
city. The owner of the rest house is a short man whose couple of teeth of the
lower jaw are broken. You can go to him and say that you want to meet a lost
friend. He will bring you to me. Before you meet me do not disclose your name
or objective at any point in time."

This letter was reassuring yet worrying. So, Badr's companions sent a clever
spy to Toledo. But before his return an emissary of a secret organization of
Cordova came and gave the devastating news that Mughira was hanged publically
at a square in Toledo. The secret organization was told about this incident by
a few traders coming from Toledo.

After a few days, Badr's spy returned and confirmed the news. Badr and his
companions questioned him further but he told them that he could not trace the
person who had invited Mughira to Toledo. The spy told them that he went to
the inn during the night, placed the dagger on the chest of the inn's owner
and when he was compelled to tell me the truth, he told me that he was
assigned this task by the city's mayor. After listening to the spy, Badr and
his comrade arrived to the conclusion that the traitor who had invited Mughira
to Toledo was an agent of the city's mayor or governor and the inn's owner was
used as bait to catch the lion of the jungle.

Gradually, the news of Mughira's assassination spread to Andalus. With this
news, a blanket of pessimism spread over the covert organizations. The people
of Granada too, felt that one of their strong arm had been broken.
Nonetheless, to the mujahideen, Mughira's rather young but promising son
proved to be a befitting replacement.

One day the Christian governor of the border territory suddenly attacked. Badr
retreated and led them to the difficult terrain of the mountainous region
where one archer was enough for a hundred soldiers. After losing more than
half of their army, the Christians started retreating from the forest. Badr's
archers proved more lethal than the mountains and soon the Christians felt
that after escaping from the fire they now reached the foot of a volcanic
mountain. They were no match for arrows coming from the soldiers hiding in
dense trees. And the army of 6,000 returned with only 1,500 troops. As the
Christian general was escaping with his remaining group amid a volley of
arrows, one of Badr's soldiers jumped over his horse and both stumbled to the
ground.

Seeing their general fall, the Christians didn't dare to look back and give
another look. They panicked and became scattered, running here and there. But
on reaching their border they were about to face another devastation.

Badr's horsemen had blocked all their exits. Behind them was a rain of arrows
and in front of them was a wall of shining lances. On the left was a slope
that apparently had no hindrance. Those who survived the arrows and lances
turned their horses in this direction. But after half a mile down, there was a
deep ditch. Hopeless from all sides, about 200 men jumped off their horses and
fell into this ditch while some threw away their swords.

Badr Bin Mughira ordered some of his soldiers to chase the men in the ditch
while he appointed another group to guard the prisoners.



This battle ensued with the early rays of the sun and by noon Badr's 2,000
soldiers changed into the uniforms of the Christian army's wounded and
prisoners. Riding their very horses, they were now ready for a bigger mission.
A little before sunset, citizens of an important city prepared to receive
their victorious general. When the darkness of the evening was falling upon
the reddish sky, a soldier at the bridge of the gate exclaimed, "They have
arrived! Long live Count Santiago!"

Cries of "Long live Count Santiago" were raised everywhere. Church bells were
rung. Thousands of men and women gathered outside the city gate. The city's
bishop stood among them with a garland of flowers. As the sound of the
galloping horses came close, the excitement of the cheering people grew.

A horseman whose white robe fluttered in the air suddenly appeared from the
clouds of dust. He reached near the gate of the city, halted his horse and
started looking back. After a while, about 2,000 horsemen gathered in front of
the gate. The wave of shock fell over the city dwellers. Being apparently very
worried they started dispersing around. The white-masked rider roared the
shout of Takbeer and the atmosphere resonated with the sound of "Allahu
Akbar".

The bishop could not believe his ears and carefully examined the flag of the
white-masked rider. Instead of the cross, the flag sported a crescent. The
garland of flowers fell off his shivering hands.

The people were listening to the roars of "Allahu Akbar". They also saw that
the leader of the attackers had a crescent on his fluttering flag but before
they could believe their eyes and ears and turn into action, Badr Bin
Mughira's 2,000 diehard warriors had entered the city through the wide open
gate. After a while, a few of Count Santiago's soldiers, who had escaped
through the forest and headed towards the city, learned from fleeing city
dwellers that the city had been captured by the Muslims.

Before midnight, Badr Bin Mughira had taken away all the gold, silver, ration
and several livestock as booty and left the city.

After handing over the booty to 500 of his horsemen, he headed towards the
nearby cities and villages.

The next morning, when his fatigued troops were on their way back to their
residence, they had several flocks of livestock, mules and donkeys loaded with
booty in front of them.

A night before the attack, Count Santiago could never had imagined that they
would have to spend the night in captivity of those very people about whom
their 6,000 fighters had sworn in front of the Holy Mary's statue that they
will not return until they put the last man of the enemy to death.

He had expected a stiff resistance from his enemy but after Mughira's death he
had not expected that they would repulse this surprise attack so skillfully.
During battle, once he had seen a white-robed rider with lighting speed who
galloped from one end of the forest to the other, commanding his cavalry and
infantry soldiers. It impressed upon him that the new leader was no less
lethal that Mughira.

He spent the entire night restlessly, tossing and turning in bed. The food
that his men had presented lay untouched. Because of his position and stature,
the guards dealt with him with respect and dignity. When someone tried to say
a few words of consolation, he would abruptly ask, "Who was the falcon? Where
is he now? I would like to see him. I swear by the Holy Mary, he is not a
human." At times, in a fit of rage he would yell, "How will I ever face them
on my return? Why don't you just kill me?"

After his capture, he had taken an oath of honor not to try to escape,
therefore, he was not shackled by Badr's soldiers like an ordinary prisoner
and neither was he harmed. However, when he tried to take out his dagger to
pierce it in his own chest, a soldier caught hold of his hands. On raising an
alarm, a few other soldiers unarmed him by force while Badr's lieutenant
assigned a couple of guards for his security. He said, "It is our duty to
ensure his safety until our leader returns".

On Badr's return a little before noon the next day, the shouts of "Allahu
Akbar" resonated in the silence of the forest.

After spending a restless night, Count Santiago came out of his tent and lay
in the lush green grass in a deep sleep, under the cool shade of a tree.
Rubbing his eyes, he awoke by the shouts of the people. Badr Bin Mughira, who
was wearing a white robe over his armor and with only his eyes visible from
his veil, came and stood right in front of him. Blood was splattered all over
his white robe. Count Santiago took a few looks at his masked opponent from
top to toe and said, "Alas! Only if my hands would reach your mask and I could
see who has given me the worst defeat ever?"

Badr replied, "A soldier should not be bothered by victory and defeat."

Saying this, he moved his attention towards his companions, "I had expected a
better treatment of him by you. I would like to know why his oath was not
respected and why were his weapons taken away from him?"

One of Badr's lieutenant came forward and replied, "We wanted to stop him from
the misuse of the weapons. Suicide does not suit a brave person."

Badr said, "Return his horse and weapons to him. Unchain the rest of the
prisoners, blindfold them and escort them to the other side of the border."

Santiago enquired apprehensively, "So you expect your soldiers to escort us to
the border and we would not be rained with arrows from behind our backs?"

Badr replied in a rather bitter tone, "No. Because this is part of our
traditions."

Badr's lieutenant came forward and whispered, "But I don't understand the
reason for letting them go without taking ransom."

"In your opinion, how much would that be?"

"At least 50,000."

"We have gained a hundred times more than that. Go and escort them across the
"border. After a few years when their treasury will be replenished then we
"will invite them here again. Now my companions and I need to take some rest."

Saying this Badr proceeded towards the fort.



After this victory, the title "The Frontier Falcon" given by Santiago
gradually became common to all. Several fables of bravery became associated
with this name. Superstitious Christians used to say that the Frontier Falcon
was a supernatural human who has been spotted fighting simultaneously in the
forest of the rebels, in the Christian dwelling that are several kilometers
away and in the cities. His legend travelled from the Kingdom of Ferdinand and
reached Granada. The Islamic scholars termed him a Ghazi. Poets penned
fictitious tales of love and romance with princesses of high pedigree.
Intellectuals threw light on various aspects of his personality.

Shepherds and farmers from afar, returning after a laborious day, would become
the center of attraction of the people. They would spread stories of having
seen the Frontier Falcon at a certain place at a certain point in time.

Santiago was one of Ferdinand's favorite warrior but after his crushing
defeat, Ferdinand had no desire to make an immediate move against his new and
intriguing enemy. Before sending any new troops to the other side of the
border, Ferdinand thought first of fortifying his border entrenchments. After
two years of preparations, Ferdinand gave priority to his show of strength
instead of a victory so that he could remove the Frontier Falcon's image of
invincibility from the minds of the people. So, he dispatched a few missions
but the result of these attacks were no different than Santiago's
misadventure.

Ferdinand had come to realize that the Frontier Falcon was a formidable enemy
in his own territory of influence but lacked a large enough group to come out
of the forest and take over any part of his kingdom. Therefore, he started
concentrating on finishing that last Islamic sultanate, whose people were not
only against living under him like subjects but were also striving to achieve
their lost glory.

Meanwhile, Badr Bin Mughira took advantage of the situation and constantly
kept consolidating his strength. Gradually, when the people of clandestine
groups of various cities found out that the Frontier Falcon is none other than
Mughira's young son, some of them, who were keen on taking part in jihad, left
their homes and joined-up with him.

One such individual who migrated from Cordova was Bashir Bin Hassan. Living up
to the reputation of his famous ancestry, he became a skillful physician and
surgeon at a very young age. He proved to be a valuable asset and support to
Badr.

The rulers of Cordova and Seville had remained under his treatment. When the
Crown Prince of Castile injured himself severely after falling off his horse,
Ferdinand sent for him. On the Crown Prince's recover, Ferdinand and Isabella
offered him the post of Royal Physician but he refused and returned to
Cordova. After two years, when he received a letter from Badr Bin Mughira, he
left his luxurious palace and gave priority to living with a mujahid in the
forest.



Two months after the meeting with Al-Zefel, the ruler of Cordova, Abul Hassan,
issued a secret decree and gave the custody of some of Cordova's bordering
areas that were connected to the Frontier Falcon's mountains and forest, to
Badr Bin Mughira. Badr Bin Mughira did not get himself involved in the affairs
of tax collection, judiciary and other local issues. He left these
responsibilities with the border administrator while he took over the
administration of check posts and construction of new defensive outposts.

Apart from a few trustworthy army officers, no one knew that their commanding
general was the very same youth who was remembered by the title of "The
Frontier Falcon" or "Shaheen". He was referred by these title not only by the
people of Andalus but also by the Muslims of Granada. One day, the border
administrator announced to the soldiers that, on his request, the Frontier
Falcon had promised to give a few days' training to them in his forest.

"I will send you in batches of two hundred, one after the other. I am sure his
"training will prove beneficial for you."

The troops were more excited to have a look at the Shaheen of the forest than
to learn new war tactics. Badr Bin Mughira's lieutenant, Mansour Bin Ahmed,
would receive the troops disguised as the Frontier Falcon and would send them
back after training them for a few days on the war tactics of fighting in the
forest and mountains.

Ferdinand did raise his concerns over the entrenchment along the Granadian
border but Abul Hassan sent a reply saying that these preparations have been
done to protect against any attack by the Frontier Falcon. Besides Abul
Hassan's reply, Ferdinand was also satisfied because apart from the normal
formalities, there were no new restrictions to the access of the of the
kingdom's cities from the border. As usual, traders from Cordova, Castile and
other cities could pass the border to the cities of Granada on showing a
transit document issued by Ferdinand's rulers.
