
# The Last Defender of Al-Hamra



The siege of Granada had entered into its seventh month. The condition of the
city was deteriorating. The people were sick and tired of starvation. The elders
of Granada were gathered in a spacious room of Al-Hamra. The Lion of Granada,
Moosa Bin Abi Ghassan, was looking at Abu Abdullah and his courtiers with
wrath-filled glances.

Ferdinand's emissary of peace entered into the room. He came in front of the
throne, bowed, offered his salutations and then stood respectfully after taking
a few steps backwards. He had Ferdinand's letter in his right hand. Seeing Abu
Abdullah and the attendees of the court focused on him, he opened the letter and
began reading:

"One more time, Emperor Ferdinand the Great would like to advise the King of
Granada Abu Abdullah not to add to the difficulties of his subjects by
prolonging this fruitless war. By now, the King of Granada must have been
convinced that the army of Castile will not return until Granada is conquered.
There is no chance that the Sultans of Africa, who are involved in civil wars
themselves, will send an army for the aid of the people of Granada. Ferdinand
the Great is convinced that his might in sufficient to defeat the strength of
the people of Granada and their supporters, the tribes of the mountains. Despite
this, the King and Queen would like to extend their hand of conciliation toward
Abu Abdullah and his subjects. If Abu Abdullah does not intend to further
increase the plight of his subjects then it is important that he lay down his
arms immediately and send his emissary to the court of the King to finalize the
conditions of a treaty. The King assures that his treatment will be extremely
benevolent. In any other scenario, the responsibility of an exemplary
destruction of Granada will rest on King Abu Abdullah."

The attendees of the court were silently looking at Abu Abdullah, Abul Qasim and
Moosa. The emissary rolled up the letter and presented it to Abu Abdullah. Abu
Abdullah looked at his right and left towards his Prime Minister and the
Commander-in-Chief.

Looking at the emissary, Abul Qasim Abdulmalik said, "You will have our reply by
tomorrow."

The emissary left the room after bowing and offering his salutations to the
King. Two guards waiting at the door went along with him and ushered him towards
the Royal Guesthouse.

After opening and having a look at the letter, Abu Abdullah turned his attention
towards Moosa and said in a gloomy tone, "Moosa! What is your opinion?"

Moosa stood up and after taking a look at the attendees of the court for a
moment, said,

"We were told that Ferdinand's emissary is coming with a message of peace but
the first condition for a compromise that he has sent is to lay down the arms.
In my opinion we won't have much say in the other conditions after we have
complied with the first one. The interpretation of this letter is that we should
first bend down on our knees in front of Ferdinand's might and then be at his
mercy. Abul Qasim Abdulmalik had told us that Ferdinand is willing to do an
honorable compromise with us, therefore, we should give up the idea of fighting
a decisive battle in the field. You did not listen to me. You wanted to be in a
state of self-deception and today you are witnessing its consequences. Great
Sultan, Prime Minister and elders of the nation! You all know my opinion. Swords
have always scrapped the decisions of the pen. Ferdinand thinks that Granada's
corpse has been lowered into the grave and now all that needs to be done is to
pour sand over it. The message his emissary has brought to you is that if you
are ready to be buried in the grave then your graveyard will be made according
to your wishes. Once you're ready to strangle yourself with your own hands then
your corpse won't be dishonored.

Great Sultan! If you ask me the reply to Ferdinand's letter then send him a
sword on behalf of the people of Granada. Writings of honorable agreements are
not written with the pen, but with the tip of the sword."

Moosa sat down. Silence prevailed in the court for a while. Abu Abdullah looked
at his Prime Minister and said, "Abul Qasim! Would you like to say something?"

Abul Qasim stood up and replied:

"Great Sultan! I am not Moosa Bin Abi Ghassan's opponent. I respect his feelings
but if he doubts my good intentions then I am ready to resign at this very
moment. My crime is that I have opposed the idea of going out of the city in the
open ground for a decisive battle. But Moosa Bin Abi Ghassan knows that my
opposition was not because of cowardice. I had merely given the opinion that if
the outcome of the battle was not in our favor then we would have to face dire
consequences.

Moosa knows the condition of the army better than me. The plight of the people
is not hidden from anyone's eyes. Certainly Moosa will not blame me for the
other day when the people demonstrated in front of the Al-Hamra in favor of
peace and that this was a result of some conspiracy by me and after that the
commanders of army and the elders of the city who opposed the idea, in front of
the Sultan, of going for a decisive battle in the field were all taught by me
and those people of the city who are rejoicing today at the arrival of
Ferdinand's emissary are doing so on some covert instructions by me.

Elders of Granada! If you agree with Moosa's idea that there is no other way for
us but to fight till our last breath, then I am with you. The enemy will be
informed about your decision."

A chief stood up and said, "In my opinion, we should be ready for a decisive
battle but along with this, if there is a chance of an honorable agreement then
the door of negotiations should not be closed."

Another chief stood up and said, "Swayed by emotions, we should not ignore the
harsh realities. The people of the city are dying of hunger. If this siege
continues till winter then our condition will become even worse. Besides Badr
Bin Mughira's handful of troops on the outside, we have no hope of aid from
anyone else. Our people are sick and tired of the double trouble of starvation
and war."

A religious scholar stood up and said, "Even if we assume that we stay in the
boundary or compel Ferdinand to remove the siege after going to battle in the
field then who can say that the war will end and Ferdinand won't launch a second
attack after making better preparations. Until when will we keep fighting, after
all? We should not also forget that the prolongation of this war is increasing
the suffering of those helpless brothers of ours who are at the mercy of the
Christian majority and the Christians government in the rest of Spain."

Moosa got up and said, "If today, instead of being besieged in Granada, had we
been in front of the four walls of Castile, then, this wouldn't have been the
condition of our brothers in Spain. Mountains of calamities broke on their heads
when the Christians had realized our insensitivity."

A person got up and said, "Some scholars of Granada think that this ongoing,
indecisive war of ours with Ferdinand is not jihad. A major segment of our
nation is being governed by the Christians and the result of this war will only
aggravate the problems for us and our brothers."

Biting his lips in rage, Moosa stood up. He said in a shivering voice:

"Our war is a war for the sake of humanity against tyranny and oppression. Our
victory would be a victory for humanity and our defeat would be the defeat of
humanity. I will not permit some idiot to be remembered as a scholar in this
council who doesn't consider this a jihad.

Citizens of Granada! Why don't you think that we are fighting for that piece of
land on which we are standing on? If this is snatched away from us, we would
have nowhere to go. If Granada goes from our hands then the flame of Islam will
extinguish from Andalus forever."

After this, the people of the court took part in this discussion, turn by turn.
This discussion ended at midnight. Apart from Moosa and a few of his companions,
the decision of the rest was that as a reply to Ferdinand, Abul Qasim Abdulmalik
should be sent to him and a discussion to take place on the conditions of the
treaty that Abul Qasim brings back from Ferdinand. If these conditions are
acceptable then it's good otherwise ponder upon the proposal of a decisive
battle.

Moosa was certain that the conditions of the treaty set by Ferdinand would be so
humiliating that the citizens of Granada would not accept them. Therefore, when
Abul Qasim left, against Moosa's wishes, for negotiations with Ferdinand, he
commanded his army to be ready for a decisive attack. He also sent instructions
for Badr Bin Mughira and his companions to be prepared. For three days, Abul
Qasim Abdulmalik kept negotiating the conditions of the treaty with Ferdinand
and meanwhile in the mosques of Granada, Moosa's spirit-elevating speeches had
infused a new life into the people of the city. Due to the fervor and enthusiasm
of the people, the effect of the war opposition had been suppressed to a large
extent.



After three days of long meetings, the conditions of the treaty that Abul Qasim
Abdulmalik was successful in finalizing with were as follows:

1. Both parties will keep the war postponed for seventy days and within this
period the government of Granada will be handed over to Ferdinand based on the
conditions mentioned below.

2. Both parties will release the prisoners of war.

3. The Christian government of Granada will take the responsibility of
guarding the lives, properties and honor of the Muslims. The Christians will
not interfere in the mosques, endowments, and the religious affairs of the
Muslims. They will have complete liberty to offer prayers, fast and give the
Athaan. No Christian will have the permission to enter the houses of the
Muslims and their mosques. The court cases of the Muslims will be decided
according their Law of Shariah and Muslim judges will be appointed for this
purpose. No Christians or Jew will be allowed to decide such cases.

4. If the Muslims so desire, they will be allowed to immigrate to Africa and
the Christian government will provide its own ships to them.

5. Muslims will not be compelled to change their religion. The Christians,
too, who have become Muslims will not be compelled to leave Islam. Christian
soldiers will not be deployed outside Muslim homes and nor will they be
burdened with any new tax.

6. After leaving Granada, Sultan Abu Abdullah will have the government of
Alpujarras handed over to him.

7. Within seventy days, the city of Granada, the fort of Al-Hamra and all the
military equipment would be handed over to the Christians.

8. Apart from Ferdinand, the Pope of Rome will also sign this treaty and will
be responsible for its implementation."

Before reading out the conditions of the treaty in the court of Abu Abdullah,
Abul Qasim took an oath from the attendees that whatever is discussed in the
royal court regarding these conditions would not be disclosed to the people of
Granada.

Most of the nobles and the scholars present in the court thought that
Ferdinand's offer was extremely generous but Moosa was using all his power of
eloquence for the opposition of this agreement. The discussion took place for
four days. The majority of the nobles had already expressed their opinions in
favor of this agreement. Today was the last day of the discussion.

The last roar of the Lion of Granada could be heard in Al-Hamra. The attendees
of the court were looking at him spellbound. Moosa Bin Abi Ghassan was saying:

"People of Granada! On your withered faces, I am reading the verdict of the
destiny of that nation that has ruled this country for eight hundred years. I
know my hue and cry won't have any effect on you. The blood in your veins that
could have been moved with words has dried up. But despite knowing that my voice
would be lost in thin air one more time, after colliding with the walls of this
court, I am compelled to say something to you.

Words cannot be used as an elixir of life for the dead but if there is a glimmer
of life left in you then listen to me attentively. On the Day of Judgement these
lifeless stones of the walls of Al-Hamra will be witness to the fact that when
you were strangling yourselves with your own hands someone had asked you not to.
When you were in a sleep of death someone came and awakened you after shaking
you violently and when you were choosing for yourself and your nation a life of
indignity then someone had shown you a path to an honorable death. Hopeless of
your courage and the mercy of God, you think that you will be able to live a
peaceful life after you lay your arms down in front of the enemy but you don't
know that in a life of slavery every moment will be worse than death for you. If
you don't have the shame that you will be facing those ancestors of yours on the
Day of Judgement whose bones are buried in the dust of Granada then, for God's
sake, atleast think about what your coming generations will say to you. You had
inherited the government from your ancestors and what are you leaving for your
coming generations? Slavery, humiliation and disgrace!

If you lay down your arms then not only our sacrifices of the past few years
will go to waste but  all that blood will also go to waste that has been shed by
the Muslims from the time of Tariq Bin Ziyad until today. Today the spirits of
the martyr of the nation are looking at you. Do not dishonor their blood. Even
today it is my faith that we can win this war. You say that the people of
Granada are tired of hunger and starvation but is it hunger that makes a coward
brave and a brave coward. If you don't lose courage then even today the people
are ready to fight. We have already defeated the enemy in the battle of Loja
with forty thousand mujhahideen. Can't a hundred thousand soldiers defend
Granada? So far we have taken the protection behind the four walls of Granada
but now we will tie a shroud around our heads and go into the field. If we live,
our liberty would be safeguarded and if we are martyred even then there won't be
a stain on our dignity. This land, where the legends of the dignity of our
ancestors is engraved in every particle, will not see our humiliation. This sky,
which has seen the swords of our elders for eight hundred years, will not see
the chains of slavery on our feet. On the Day of Judgment our hem will be
colored with the blood of martyrdom but they won't have the blackened stains of
slavery and humiliation."

An influential chief stood up and said, "Again you are being carried away by
your emotions. There is no doubt about your bravery but you are ignoring the
bitter realities. You know very well that no fortification can be captured by
mere words."

Moosa Bin Abi Ghassan thundered back and said, "Sit down. You are the one guilty
of ignoring the bitter realities not me!"

But as soon as he sat down, a religious scholar stood up and said, "Moosa!
Suicide is not permitted in any religion. We are helpless and powerless in front
of God's will. No one can wipe what destiny has written."

Moosa's face was glowing with rage. He said in a shivering voice:

"You consider martyrdom to be suicide compared to a life of humiliation and
slavery. This is nothing new. When Tariq had burned his ships at the shores of
Andalus and ordered his troops to march forward then even at that time,
far-sighted people like you thought this it was suicide and when the army of
Sultan Abul Hassan was advancing toward Loja, even then you thought that this
move was suicide. Tariq and Abul Hassan were ordinary people like us but even in
the Battle of Badr when the Leader of Humanity Mohammad (PBUH) stood with 313
diehard supporters facing a huge army of the enemy then a group among the
hypocrites got overwhelmed by the size of the infidels and began saying that the
flame of Islam is not yet capable of facing the winds of the infidels. I don't
know which God's will you believe in. I only know one God. I follow only His
command and only know to bow my head in front of His will. My Lord is He who had
revealed the Quran to Mohammad Mustafa (PBUH). My Lord is He who saved the ark
of Noah (AS) from the storm. My Lord is He who had given victory to 313 over a
thousand. My Lord is He who had removed the crowns from the heads of Caesar and
Chosroes and threw it at the feet of desert dwellers. This God's Beloved
Messenger (PBUH) has taught me that if a believer survives in battle he is a
"Ghazi" and if he dies, he is a "Shaheed". Believers in that God walk on the
edge of the swords and do not carry the burden of the chains of slavery. The
will of this God is that we go into the field with shrouds around our heads and
pursue oppression, tyranny, savagery and barbarism to the limits of the world.

People of Granada! I see tears in your eyes but Granada needs your blood. The
history of the dignity and freedom of nations is not written with tears but is
written with blood.

You are the leaders of the nation. The nation has given you the authority to
make a choice for their future. If make a mistake then the entire nation would
have to bear the consequences. In the law of nature there is a margin for
overlooking personal errors but collective errors are not forgiven. If you want
to sink yourself then atleast don't advise the nation to do so too. You have
resources. In the time of crisis, you can leave Granada and go someplace else
but don't create a situation for the people that they are left in the middle of
nowhere."

Moosa sat down. Silence prevailed over the court. For a while, the attendees
kept looking here and there. Finally, Abul Qasim stood up and said:

"Elders of the Nation! The verdict for the destiny of Granada lies in your hands
now. On your directives, I had negotiated the terms of the treaty with the
enemy, but, the choice to accept or reject the terms is yours. If you think we
can continue the war in these circumstances then I will welcome your decision
but if you have become disheartened then I will say that we should consider
these terms of the treaty more than satisfactory. In a personal capacity, I
would like to second Moosa's views but in the capacity of Prime Minister, I will
await your decision. All those chiefs and scholars gathered here at this moment
have the right of representing the army and the people. All I know is that if
you decide to continue the war then despite the discouraging circumstances all
the people will, once again, rise to the occasion but if you are in support of
the treaty then expecting anything from the army and the people will be in vain.
I pray to God that He guides you in making the decision."

A Berber chief stood up and said, "Moosa Bin Abi Ghassan knows that we have
supported him in war despite being in the most pessimistic of times but now the
circumstances are such that drawing a veil over them would be in vain.
Ultimately there would be two outcomes of the war. Total victory or total
destruction. But in case of a peaceful treaty, the path of being safe from total
destruction will be open for us."

Another chief got up in his support. Then the religious scholars got up, one
after the other, and started saying that this was the Will of God. "We cannot
fight against it."

A mufti of Granada, who had written several books on the religion of Islam,
stood up and said, "There is no doubt that at the moment the Christians are our
enemies but after the treaty we will get the chance to propagate Islam to them
in peaceful ways and the walls of hatred that are currently built around us will
collapse automatically. I can envision the day when the enemies of Islam will be
its best soldiers."

An immigrant from Cordova, who had gained a lot of influence in the past few
months in the court of Granada because of his brilliance, stood up and supported
these views.



This round of speeches continued till noon. The nobles and scholars had given
their verdict in support of the treaty. In the end, Abul Qasim stood up and
looked at Abu Abdullah. The last monarch of the unfortunate nation sat with his
head bowed down. Abul Qasim said, "Great Sultan! The verdict of the leaders of
the nation is that the terms of the treaty should be accepted. What is your
command?"

Abu Abdullah looked at the attendees of the court with extreme helplessness.
Apart from Moosa, despair dripped from every face. Abu Abdullah said in a
melancholy voice, "I had thought that these leaders of the nation would have
changed their opinions after Moosa's speech but it seems that there is no remedy
to this fire of destruction that I had scintillated with my own hands." Abu
Abdullah wanted to say something more but his voice sank and his eyes became
filled with tears.

Abul Qasim looked at Moosa. Horror was dripping from his eyes. Abul Qasim said,
"Moosa! Is there anything more you would like to say?"

In reply to this, Moosa got up and after pausing for a second, said:

"For the last time I would like to say something to you. After this you won't
hear my voice. From today our paths will be different. I can support you for a
death of dignity. I won't be your companion in a life of humiliation. You think
that there is a message of peace and friendship in the terms of Ferdinand's
treaty. You think that you will be able to sit peacefully after handing over
your freedom to the enemy but don't deceive yourself. These words are more
temporary than the paper on which they are written. My soul shivers at the
imagination of the humiliation that would become your fate in Ferdinand's
slavery. When he conquers Granada, the interpretation of the words of these
benevolent conditions will change completely. You think that you will be able to
sleep peacefully in Ferdinand's guard. You think that after becoming homeless
and humiliated you will be able to serve the religion of Islam? But remember!
Along with Ferdinand's government will come that rule of savagery and barbarism
that the world has ever seen. That tongue that takes the name of God and The
Prophet (PBUH) would be ripped away. Your mosque would be desecrated. Your homes
would be looted. Your womenfolk would be publicly disgraced. You would be
converted to Christianity at the tip of the sword. There won't be spacious and
luxurious palaces but dark and tiny prison cells for you. The land will see your
tears and the sky will hear your moaning. I won't witness all this. A death of
liberty is easy for me while a life of slavery will be difficult for you. I will
leave now and you won't see me after this."

Taking quick steps, Moosa left. Abu Abdullah's wife and mother stood at the gate
of Dar Al-Aswad. There were tears in their eyes. On seeing them, Moosa stood for
a second and then continued his stride with the same pace. After a while, a
large crowd of people had gathered at the gate of his palace. Moosa mounted his
beautiful horse and rode out of the palace. He was clad in iron from top to toe.
The people moved aside after seeing him and without saying a word to anyone, he
prompted his horse. After leaving the gates of the city his agile horse got lost
in the clouds of dust.

To this day no one knows what ultimately happened to the Lion of Granada. Some
people say that he was martyred fighting with Ferdinand's soldiers by the banks
of the River Genil and some say that after barging into the midst of Ferdinand's
army and killing several men and getting severely wounded himself, he jumped
into the river.  

 

The secrets of Al-Hamra could not remain hidden from the eyes of the people of
Granada for long. The city's youth, who considered Moosa their savior, became
against the nobles. Although there was such a group that existed in the army
that was in support of the treaty, however, the majority was of those people who
were not willing to accept a defeat without a war.

One morning when the people awakened such posters were stuck outside every
mosque of Granada saying that Abu Abdullah and his nobles have made a deal of
the people's honor and liberty with the enemy. But the very next morning the
peace-lovers and the people with defeated mentality stuck up posters saying that
it is ungratefulness to reject Ferdinand's benevolent terms and conditions. This
was the beginning of anarchy. In a few days, this went to the extent that in
every gulley, every neighborhood and every seminary the peace-lovers and the
supporters of war began clashing with each other. Speeches of conflicting views
began to take place in mosques and seminaries. One evening, a huge crowd of the
people demonstrated intensely against Abu Abdullah and the nobles of his
sultanate. A group of peace lovers tried to pacify them but the enthusiasm and
fervor of the people was such that they manhandled them. After beating them up,
the people took out a procession in the city and set some of the houses,
belonging to those nobles and scholars who were suspected of being Ferdinand's
spies, on fire. Fearing a danger of an outbreak of a civil war, Abu Abdullah
decided to handover the city to Ferdinand even before the expiry of the grace
period of seventy days. Hence on the 12 Rabi Al-Awwal, 897 Hijri i.e. 1492 C.E,
Granada was given under the possession of the enemy.

Abu Abdullah rode out on his horse from Al-Hamra. Behind him were fifty nobles
of the city who were also on horses. Ferdinand and Queen Isabella stood out of
the city with their army in formations. Abu Abdullah came off his horse as soon
as he came close to the Christian King. Despite trying hard to control himself,
tears flowed out of his eyes. Ferdinand got off his horse and hugged him.

While presenting the keys of Al-Hamra to him, Abu Abdullah said, "God has
granted you the government of Granada. I pray that he makes you capable of being
merciful, just and fair."

Abu Abdullah turned his attention to Queen Isabella. Despite the greatness of
the Queen of Al-Hamra she could not help but be moved by the sight of the
helplessness of the last monarch of Granada. For a moment she was a woman. She
became emotional and started looking towards her husband tearfully. Taking the
cue from the Queen, Ferdinand wanted to say something to console Abu Abdullah
but without pausing Abu Abdullah mounted his horse and turned its reins around.
After a while he joined up with the caravan that was heading towards Andercus
with his wealth and belongings. His mother and wife were also part of this
caravan.

Ferdinand's armies entered the city in the sound of victory trumpets. The King
and Queen requested their respective religious leaders to install the sign of
the cross on the tower of Al-Hamra with their holy hands.

Eyes of the men, women and children were glued to the tower of Al-Hamra. This
city that had, for centuries, heard slogans being raised in jubilations by the
mujahideen of Islam after their return from far-flung victories was now hearing
the anthem of the enemy's victory. So far, the flag of Islam was fluttering over
the tower of Al-Hamra. The people of Granada were witnessing that star of their
destiny which was going to set forever. When Granada's crescent flag was being
removed and the flag of the cross being raised in its place, Ferdinand's
soldiers were singing anthems of jubilation on one side and on the other side,
the shrieking screams of the people of Granada could be heard. Blood of life was
running in the veins of a victorious nation while the pulse of a conquered
nation was sinking.

On reaching a peak of a mountain in Alpujarras, Abu Abdullah halted his horse.
He looked at Granada for one last time and started crying bitterly.

The brave mother said scornfully, "What is the use now of crying now like a
woman, over the destruction of the Sultanate, for which you did not spill your
blood to defend it like a man?"

Abu Abdullah's government did not sustain for more than a few days in limited
region of Alpujarras. The Muslim separatists of this area had nothing but hatred
in their hearts for him. Instead of ruling over them with the help of the
Christian army he immigrated to Morocco and got employed in the army of the
Sultan.



Moosa Bin Abi Ghassan's reservations proved to be right. The treaty which the
people of Granada thought was a message of peace and tranquility was actually a
plot of deception and they were trapped in it. The sword had scrapped the
writings of the pen. The victor was changing the interpretation of the terms of
the treaty according to its wishes. The religious leaders of the victorious
nation had given the verdict that religion of the Muslims was a hurdle in the
unity of Spain. That the Muslims cannot be loyal to the government. That the
people of Granada were waiting for the help of Morocco and other nations of
Islam. That they were spies and that their different language, different attire
and different civilization were a constant danger for the Christian government.
The government could only guarantee their security if they give a proof of a
change of heart and formal announcements were not enough to show a change of
heart. To become peaceful citizens they would have to adopt the official
religion. Not only for a peaceful life in this world but also for the sake of
salvation in the hereafter it is important that they leave Islam and take refuge
in the fold of Christianity.

The doors of the mosques were closing for the Muslims. They no longer had the
permission of praying or giving the Athaan. Speaking Arabic publicly became an
unforgiveable crime. Great seminaries of Granada that had imparted the light of
knowledge to the countries of Europe for eight centuries were now officially
being ordered to close down. Those libraries that were burning with the lanterns
of knowledge were now being handed over to the fire. On the outskirts of
Granada, the Christians had occupied the fertile lands and gardens. The Muslim
merchants were being deprived of their shops. The storm of loot, murder and
plunder had begun. The Jewish merchants were quite rich but to save their wealth
they were giving the addresses of the homes of the rich Muslims to the looters.
They would take a few gifts for the administrators of the city and draw their
attention towards the Muslims for the sake of looting.

This was only the beginning!

Every new morning would bring a message of a new calamity for the Muslims in
Granada and the last glances of the evening sun would see a new addition in the
hopelessness and helplessness on their faces. The people of Granada were saying
nonverbally to the state of their condition:

"What will happen now?"

"What will we do now?"

"What can we do now?"
