
# The Rebel

Fifty horsemen descended from the foot of the mountain while passing through the
dense forest and stopped in front of a broken bridge by the river where the
forest was even thicker. Running along the wild trees were grapevines, trees of
apples, pomegranates and various types of fruit-bearing trees, a witness to the
fact that that this forest was once an orchard. Across the river, on the both
sides of a broken-down road, were tall trees whose branches intertwined to form
a roof. Long, lush green grass that grew out from the sides, embraced the stony
road that showed that the feet that once trampled them, now seldom treaded this
path.

The river was not that deep and could have easily been crossed by the cavalry.
Leaving the road, they could have easily crossed over by maneuvering a few steps
up or down. But being cautious the two horsemen leading the group turned around
on reaching close to the bridge and gestured to stop. The cavalry was equipped
with the best weapons and accessories. One of the leaders of the cavalry sported
a white robe and turban that covered his entire face except the eyes. His
companion, like the rest of the cavalry, wore an armor and aventail. However,
his beautiful brown horse, sword-hilt decorated with jewels, shining armor and
aventail created a unique grandeur.

The duo, who apparently were the leaders of the squad, stood by the bridge for a
while and stared at each other.

Finally, the white-turbaned rider said, "I repeatedly get the thought...what if
he rejects our proposal?"

The brown-horse rider replied: "Then he leaves us no option but to take him as a
rebel and treat him like one."

"No! He has gained his independence from our enemies. If he undertakes the
responsibility of guarding this border only, even then we will respect his
independence."

"And what if he refuses this proposal too?"

"Even then I will not oppose him. However, I will most certainly be disappointed
for not being able to induct such a vital asset into the Granada army."

Before the brown-horse rider could reply, a deer appeared on the other side of
the bridge. The rider took out an arrow from his quiver but as he raised his
bow, an arrow swooshed from the trees, piercing itself into a wooden plank,
hanging by a tree near the bridge.

The deer jumped and disappeared into the forest. The entire cavalry was
horror-struck by that unexpected arrow. The brown-horse rider looked towards the
wooden plank and noticed a few murky words on it beside the arrow. He said to
his white-turbaned companion, "I think there is something written on it."

Both riders dismounted their horses and approached the plank by the tree. There
was an endorsement written on it:

"On this side of the river the kingdom belongs to the Frontier Falcon."

"These pastures are dedicated for the horses of the mujahideen. The right to the
fruits and animals belongs to only those who have committed themselves to
wrangle Andalus out of the claws of foreigners. Only those people from Granada
can enter this land who wish to join the ranks of the mujahideen."

"Those who are content with being enslaved by the enemies of Islam; those who
have accepted to be the subjects of the Christians, should not dare to step in
this land. We reply a sword with a sword."

After reading this warning, the white-turbaned rider looked at his armor-clad
companion and said, "Like the people of Costa, he also has the right to view the
people of Granada with suspicion. However, I would like to meet him at any
cost."

His armor-clad companion replied, "He lives eight miles away from here in an old
castle. But we cannot reach there without him being convinced of our good
intentions. This dense forest is infested with archers. Let me raise a white
flag. Maybe one of his men might appear which would give us a chance to convey
our message."

The white-turbaned rider nodded in affirmation. His companion called out to one
of his troops and approached close to the bridge waiving a white flag. He waited
and then cried out loudly, "Anyone there?! We have brought a message of
friendship for the Frontier Falcon."

After a while there was some movement in the branches of a thick tree on the
other side of the river-bank and a youth jumped down, advanced towards them and
said, "Our reply to friendship is friendship but the Frontier Falcon might
object as to why you needed several armed individuals to deliver a message of
peace?"

The armor-clad rider replied, "I am sure Badr bin Mughira's fighters won't be
overwhelmed by fifty fighters from Granada. However, we need to enquire if he
has any objection to this, we can ask these soldiers to return or else we can
handover our weapons to you or our companions can stay on that side of the river
and you can take the two of us to your leader."

The youth replied, "If you know the name of the Frontier Falcon, you must also
be familiar with his disposition. Instead of meeting with you, he would prefer
to know the strength of the army of which these troops are a vanguard of."

The armor-clad rider removed his aventail and while handing it over to one of
the soldiers said, "If you have no respect for a general of the Granada army,
then, you would certainly have regard for its royal household.

Appearing worried, the youth turned around and looked towards the trees. After a
brief silence, the sound of galloping horses was heard from behind the trees and
immediately a rider appeared and stopped by the river, sporting a white turban
instead of a shining armor over his body and aventail over his head. He was a
handsome youth of eighteen or nineteen years with a face that radiated with
exceptional courage. He quickly took account of the troops on the other side of
the river and said, "To meet Badr bin Mughira you don't need any royal of
Granada to intercede on your behalf. He would be more pleased to meet someone
who is a pure soldier."

The armor-clad rider replied, "The purity of a soldier's intentions can only be
judged in the battlefield and if fate would join your leader and I on the same
front then the boiling blood from my wounds would testify to the purity of my
intentions. Go and inform your leader that if he doubts Moosa's intentions then
let him lay siege on any city of Castile. I, along with fifty of these soldiers
would support him under the shade of the swords and raining arrows."

On the other side the youth listened attentively to his speaker and without
uttering a word, moved forward a few steps, wading his horse in the river. He
moved close to the armor-clad rider, dismounted his horse, held out his hand and
said, "If you are indeed Moosa, then, without asking you another question, I put
forward my hand of friendship."

While shaking the youth's hand, Moosa said, "So, are you Badr bin Mughira? I am
amazed that..."

Badr bin Mughira interrupted him and said, "So, you are amazed as to why we
didn't recognize each other at first sight."

Moosa said, "This is exactly what I wanted to say. I expected you to be much
older but I think you're in the right age to be called a falcon. Now, if you
could forget the pastÂ grievances you have towards the royalty of Andalus, then,
I would introduce you to whom I consider to be the last arrow in the quiver of
Andalus."

"If you consider Murad Abu Abdullah Al-Zeghel to be the last arrow in the quiver
of Andalus, then, meeting him would certainly be an honor. The mujahideen from
Granada, who have joined my ranks, have spoken highly of only a handful of
people and those army generals whom I heartfully desire to meet are Moosa and
Al-Zaighri and from the royal family the only person is Al-Zeghel."

Moosa replied, "We could not bring Al-Zaighri along but if you can see past the
white veil then consider Al-Zeghel right in front of you."

When Badr bin Mughira looked towards Moosa's white-turbaned companion, he
extended his right hand towards him and unveiled his face using his left hand.
Al-Zeghel appeared to be about fifty years of age. Appearing deeply interested,
he looked at Badr bin Mughira and said, "It is youth like yourself who are the
last arrow in the quiver of Andalus."

Badr bin Mughira said, "I appreciate your encouragement but unfortunately in
Andalus the hands that should be mastering the arrows are playing rubabs."

Al-Zeghel replied, "I will snatch away the rubabs from their hands and if not
then I shall chop those hands-off. Those useless hands of Andalus are playing
rubabs because they do not have arrows. I am collecting arrows for them. I have
come here to invite you to join the army of Granada."

Badr bin Mughira replied, "This invitation has been put forward earlier too but
my companions and I would rather prefer to live in this forest instead of being
exhibits of the royal court of Granada. Here we do not have marbled palaces or
satin tunics but we are certainly satisfied that unlike the people of Granada,
we are not subjects to a Christian king. These mujahideen who have given up all
their life's interests to reside in this forest would not yield to the servitude
of someone else in Granada. I fear that in the atmosphere of Granada, the
mujahideen's sharp swords that have repeatedly embittered the fangs of
Christians, would loose their ferric properties. In the Granada's furnace, they
would melt and transform to become strings of rubabs. A falcon is a falcon till
it lives in the peaks of mountains and flies the open skies. I am sorry but we
are not familiar with the etiquettes of the royal court. We are only soldiers
and our struggle has just one objective. The day the Sultan of Granada announces
to re-erect the flag of Islam over Cordova and Seville, then, I assure you that
that would be the moment when you would not have to invite us. We would come to
you voluntarily and in those ashes of Andalus, where the citizens of Granada
would be willing to shed their sweat, shall our blood flow. I swear by God if
anyone is of the view that I am doing this to be a leader of a group of people
then he is mistaken. I am but a soldier awaiting that general from Granada who
possesses Tariq's vision and Abdul Rehman's heart. This valley would give him a
base and I shall keep guarding this place until he comes. If one of you is that
general, then, this entrenchment is at your service, or else begone and let me
await his arrival. Before me, my father and before him, his father guarded this
entrenchment, anxiously awaiting the arrival of that general. I too would
continue to do my duty."

Badr bin Mughira became silent after saying this and Al-Zeghel stared at him
with subdued emotions of love, affection and devotion. Finally, he said, "This
is what I had expected from Mughira's son. Youngman! Blessed are those pastures
where your horses graze. Blessed are those trees under whose shades you sleep.
No doubt the palaces of Granada can never be a home for a falcon. But I have not
come here to invite you to stay in those palaces. I have come here to give you
good news. We have decided to fight with Castile till our last breath. Today
itself, Abul Hassan is ready to announce jihad but I have asked him for a period
of four months and in that we need to do a lot. And I don't need to tell you
what you have to do."

Badr's beautiful eyes were filled with joy. Holding Al-Zeghel's hand with both
his hands, kissed it and said, "If nature has chosen this hand to raise the flag
of rebellion then I kiss it."

Al-Zeghel hugged Badr with open arms. Moving away from Al-Zeghel, Badr looked
towards Moosa and said, "I welcome you and your companions."

Moosa moved forward, put his arms around him, to which Al-Zeghel smiled and
said, "Moosa! This falcon has fallen in your hands after great difficulty. So,
don't let it go."

While kissing Badr's forehead Moosa said, "Don't you worry. Instead of keeping
you in my custody, I will try to fly with you."

"I know you quite well", Badr answered with a smile. "Who is not aware of the
apple of Granada's eye."

Moosa said, "Here, I must say something."

"Please go ahead." said Badr.

"I thought that given the circumstances you had become quite cautious but what
you demonstrated today was not according to your normal traditions. You decided
to come to us all alone without giving a thought that our intentions could be
evil."

Badr laughed and replied, "Even if fifty men did have evil intentions, I do not
consider it to be a grave danger."

"And what makes you say that there is no army behind us", said Moosa.

Badr bin Mughira replied, "I was informed of your arrival when you are about
twenty furlongs away and I was also aware that there was no army behind you and
when you were decending the mountain, I was on a tree listening to your
conversation and despite that I was cautious. The fact is that your fifty men
were within striking range of my men."

With amazement, Moosa quickly glanced around at the surrounding trees. While
smiling, Badr said, "We don't call it an arrow if the target can see it. Let me
put your curiosity to rest." Saying this he removed an arrow from his quiver,
loaded it in the bow, aimed at the plank by a tree across the river and cried
out, "Our honored guests would like to know how many falcons are present here at
this moment. Attention! The plank is your target." As soon as Badr bin Mughira's
arrow flew out of his bow and pierced itself into the plank, arrows rained from
all directions, filling-up the plank. Leaves, sliced by the arrows, fell-off the
trees.

In amazement Moosa said, "So, your men are even behind us on the trees?"

"Yes and even in front of you. You will find arrows on the other side of the
plank too."

Al-Zeghel said, "Moosa! We have to learn a lot from this youth. I will send a
few generals here. I want to put forward a lot of suggestions to him and I have
decided to return today itself."

Badr bin Mughira said, "Please forgive me for making you stand here for so long.
Please come, we will sit and talk."

Al-Zeghel replied, "But your residence is quite far from here. And if we were to
go there, then, I'm afraid we won't be able to return today."

"I won't be taking you far. Come! You are free to eat the fruits and prey in
this forest and your horses are free to graze around."

"We accept your invitation!" Saying this Al-Zeghel mounted his hourse. With Badr
leading, the entire cavalry crossed the river. On crossing the river, Badr cried
out to his companions to appear and in no time about two hundred archers jumped
down the trees from both sides of the river and gathered around him.

Galloping, a rider appeared from other side of a hidden road. He reached close
to Badr's archers and Al-Zeghel's soldiers and stopped. Appearing confused, he
started staring at them. The rider was about twenty years of age. Instead of
having features and complexion of a pure Arab or Muslim Berber, he looked of a
mixed Spanish race. His face too radiated with intelligence rather than a
warrior's might. Like Badr, he too wore a white turban over his head but he had
a red robe over his chainmail. Two bags were tied next to his horse's saddle.

While looking towards him, Badr said, "Bashir, I'm glad you have arrived. This
is the king of Andalus's brother, Al-Zeghel and this is Moosa. They have brought
us good news. Soon they are going to announce war against Castille.

Bashir jumped off his horse and shook hands with them to which Badr said, "This
is Bashir Bin Hassan. Surely, you must have heard of him. There isn't a better
surgeon in Andalus than him. He left his luxurious palace of Cordova and
preferred to live in this forest with me."

Badr signaled to his companions and one after the other they disappeared in the
forest.

Badr and Bashir led their guests into the forest and after a while reached at
the banks of a stream where a large cloth-spread was laid out for them on the
lush green grass, under the shades of trees. About fifty to sixty of Badr's men
were present here too. They tied-up the guests' horses and put grass in front of
them to feed on.

While Al-Zeghel and his soldiers sat down to eat, almost each one of them was
wondering what their host had prepared for their unexpected guests. On Badr's
clap, a few men carrying platters appeared from behind a cluster of trees and
after a while roasted meat of forest animals and abundant fruits of different
kinds were placed in front of the guests.

The guests looked at each other in amazement. Finally, Al-Zeghel said, "You have
taken a lot of trouble. I am amazed...how have you arranged so much in such a
short time?"

Badr answered, "Like I explained earlier that when you were at a distance of
about twenty furlongs, I had been informed about your arrival. I had also known
that you had not stopped on your way for breakfast. And when my informant also
told me that you do not have any supply logistics either, then I could not think
of any other options but to have some food preparations done.

After having lunch, everyone offered their afternoon prayers in the leadership
of Al-Zeghel. Later, Badr, Al-Zeghel, Moosa and Bashir separated themselves from
the rest and sat under a tree. Moosa spread out the map of Andalus and discussed
the various options of the oncoming war. Al-Zeghel agreed with various options
put forward by Badr and said, "A few days before the attack, you will be called
to Granada. I would like to give some more bordering areas under you command
with immediate effect. With this forest as your base, you would be able to
secure those areas. With this border secure, we would be able to deploy the
majority of our forces to another front. I had sought the permission of Abul
Hassan to make you the governor of this border but I was apprehensive that such
a move would immediately alert Ferdinand and he would attack us without giving
us time to prepare. Therefore, I believe for namesake let the governor be anyone
else while you be the de facto governor. For the next four months, teasing the
Christians would not be in our interest. In this duration, we want to be aware
of their conditions. You can call the mujahideen of Cordova, Castile and other
cities to join you. If the Muslims of Granada and Andalus unite, we can get rid
of the Christians forever."

Badr replied in a sad tone, "I wish someone had realized this fifty, hundred
years or two hundred years ago. Before two hundred years, there were three
hundred thousand immigrants only from Cordova, Toledo and Seville who came to
Granada with the intention to take part in the jihad but their swords melted
away in the fire of envy and jealousy. Fifty years ago, in this valley alone,
there were about sixty thousand mujahideen. Today, I only have five thousand.
But if Granada has decided to fight, then, the quantity can multiply three
times. Even now there are horses available that graze in this forest. If I need
arms, I will inform you."

Before giving the bordering areas under Badr bin Mughira's supervision,
Al-Zeghel finalized several details, after which Al-Zeghel ordered his troops to
prepare to return.
