
# Angela and Rabia's Father

In the month of April, 1491, Ferdinand attacked Granada with all his military
might. Like the King and Queen, all the knights of Andalus too had come after
taking the oath that they would not return without conquering Granada. To keep
the Shaheens of the valley and the mujahideens of Alpujarras engaged, he had
already dispatched an army of horsemen. The command of the army of Granada was
in Moosa's hand. Although there was a huge group of hypocrites and traitors
working against them, however, majority of the public was ready to give up their
lives on Moosa's cue.

Ferdinand had learned from his past failures. Despite the superiority of his
might, instead of directly attacking the city, he encamped at a distance and
started assaulting the settlements in and around the vicinity. He had already
surrounded Granada from three sides but instead of attacking the city directly,
his army was busy in burning the gardens and destroying the crops out of the
city. Ferdinand was certain that after a long siege the people of Granada would
be compelled to lay down their arms after being exhausted by starvation.
Therefore, after burning the fields of the farmers outside, he was forcing them
to take refuge in Granada. Within two months, he had desolated a lush green and
fertile area of several miles around the three sides of Granada. The only route
open to Granada for supplies and reinforcements was from Mount Basharat. Limited
supplies of grain, fruits and vegetables were coming into Granada from the
fertile valley of Sierra Nevada but this wasn't enough for the thousands of
people of Granada. The condition of the people of Granada was deteriorating
day-by-day. As for Moosa, it was not easy for him to come out in the open field
and challenge Ferdinand's cowardly army. Bands of a small group of horsemen
would go out and return after inflicting damages to Ferdinand's army. Moosa
thought that Ferdinand would be compelled to attack the city once he saw the
daily increment in the destruction of his troops but these losses did not have
any effect on Ferdinand. His army kept busy in digging trenches and
fortifications around the city.

Several famous legends of individual acts of bravery of the cavaliers from
Granada are associated with the time of the siege. A cavalier would gallop his
horse out of the city and would cry out the name of a famous knight of Ferdinand
from a far distance and invite him to a duel. Not taking up a challenge was
considered a disgrace by a knight. He would be compelled to enter into the
field. Usually the cavaliers of Granada had the upper hand in such feuds. After
taking care of one knight, the cavalier of Granada would call out for another
knight for a challenge. Many of Ferdinand's knights had been killed in these
individual duels. One day a horseman from Granada came into the field. His armor
was shining and his entire face, apart from his eyes, was hidden in the
aventail. His horse was extremely beautiful. He halted his horse at some
distance away from the front rows of Ferdinand's troops and proclaimed loudly,
"Is there anyone who has a desire for death?" After a while when he did not
receive any reply from the enemy, then, he said, "Look at my horse. Even your
King wouldn't have had the privilege of riding such a horse and my sword is
embedded with jewels that are not even in your King's crown. Is there anyone who
desires this sword and horse?"

Prompting his horse forward, Count Tendela replied, "More than that horse and
sword, my heart desires to rip away that audacious tongue." After a while the
corpse of one of the best knights of Ferdinand was agonizing in ashes and blood.
Marcos of Cadiz came into the field, but he too, met with the same fate. After
that, Granada's cavalier had condemned seven of Ferdinand's best knights to
death, one after the other. The spectators on the boundary wall of Granada were
raising slogans in jubilation. The cavalier waited for a competitor for a while
and then said, "Where is your King? Till when will their spirits wait for him in
the other world? Tell him that a he-man's sword would like to witness the color
of his blood."

One knight got excited but Ferdinand held the reins of his horse and said, "No.
No. You do not have the permission to go and duel with him."

The cavalier from Granada removed his aventail as he approached close to the
gate of the city. The guards lowered their heads in his respect. This was Moosa
Bin Abi Ghassan. The last sword of the Muslims of Granada.

Abu Dawood stood in front of Ferdinand. In a state of extreme helplessness, he
was witnessing the effects of his pleas on the face of the King. The King had
rejected his appeal against the religious court of Loja. Hopeless to get
justice, Abu Dawood had appealed for mercy. The King's silence was
nerve-wrecking for him. He was feeling that his star of destiny had fallen onto
an ill-fated path. This was the first time he was standing in front of Ferdinand
instead of sitting on a chair. When he had first entered the tent, he was sure
that Ferdinand, as usual, would step forward, shake hands with him, seat him on
a chair and after enquiring the reason for his visit would say that the priests
of Loja have gone crazy. But, as soon as he entered, when he saw him and
Ferdinand said, "My sympathies are with you but this is the verdict of the court
of the church. The court has sent that verdict to me for endorsement. I am
helpless. I didn't expect this from your girls." Abu Dawood couldn't believe his
ears. He kept staring at the King for a long time. Finally, he began his speech
with a few broken words. After a few sentences his speech had gained fluency. He
gave several justifications to prove Rabia's and Angela's innocence but
Ferdinand shook his head negating them and said, "You can't convince me. Your
girls have confessed to their crime. It was possible for me to forgive Michael's
murder but insulting the church and revolting against the government are crimes
that can't be forgiven under any circumstances. For one of your girls, the court
is right in saying that she is a sorcerer. For the other one, I am ready to
believe that whatever she did or said was because of the sorcery of your other
daughter but the words she used against the government, church and the court are
unbearable even for me. Even if the Lord Bishop's daughter would have said those
words, even her condition would have been no different than your daughter's."

Abu Dawood's voice sank. However, he mustered up courage again and requested for
mercy. He appealed against the services he had rendered. He said, "Your
Highness! I have whitened my hair in your services and these girls are my last
support. Please have mercy on me!" In reply to these pleas, Ferdinand remained
silent for a while. Finally, he said, "My mercy cannot overrule the verdict of
the court of the church, Abu Dawood. I am sorry. You have to be patient. This is
a testing time for your loyalty."

He said, "Your Highness! There has been no wavering in my loyalty but they are
my daughters. They are daughters of that servant of yours because of whose
efforts your forces are standing in front of the four walls of Granada today.
They are the daughters of that person who has completed the preparations of
opening the gates of Al-Hamra for you, who has removed cliffs like Abul Hassan
and Al-Zeghel from your path to Granada. My Master! So far I have not even
spread out my hem for the promises that you have made to me. I had merely come
with a trivial request. You have decided to make me your Regent in Granada.
Don't my girls have even this much right that they can defend their honor in my
absence?"

"But they have killed Michael and he is the Queen's relative. We appreciate your
services but we can't ignore Michael's services either."

Queen Isabella, who was listening to these talks from behind a curtain, entered
into the room. Appearing extremely under obligation Abu Dawood said, "Your
Highness! Please have mercy on me."

Without giving any reply, the Queen went and sat next to the King. Ferdinand
said, "Abu Dawood! If we cannot protect the dignity of the church, then what is
the use of these victories?"

Abu Dawood said, "Your Highness! I too have a share in these victories and I
still have to do a lot for your final victory."

The Queen said, "If you want to frighten us that we cannot conquer Granada
without you, then, you're mistaken. Through you we have merely bought the
conscience of a few men. We would have done that even if you were not there. You
have merely closed the deal but its price has been paid by our treasury. Now if
you threaten to leave us then listen! There are people present in Granada that
are more clever and more useful than you."

Abu Dawood thought of something and then looked at the King and said, "Your
Highness! Maybe I didn't live up entirely to your expectations. It is possible
that you don't feel the need for me for conquering Granada but there is still a
front where you need me. Still there is strength in the wings of the frontier
falcons. Even after Badr bin Mughira's death there has been no difference in
their ferocity and agility."

Ferdinand became startled and looked at Abu Dawood and said, "Do you know that
Badr bin Mughira is alive! You have deceived us."

Abu Dawood replied, "As far as I know, he is dead. I had arrested him. Abu
Abdullah had handed him over to the hangman, however, if a miracle from nature
has saved him then I take the responsibility that I will present him alive in
front of you. I would have to take a huge risk for this mission but if you
promise to save my girls then I am ready to go for this mission. If Badr bin
Mughira is alive, then, I will bring him to you. If he is not alive, then I take
the responsibility of killing his successor and spreading anarchy among his
group."

Ferdinand said, "A few prisoners of Granada have told us that he is alive. But
you have deceived him once. Before promising you anything, it is important for
us to know what your chances of success are in this mission."

"Your Highness! I seek forgiveness for my audacity but this is a deal. I am sure
that the chances of my success are very bright but I won't tell you anything
until you promise to save the lives of my girls."

Ferdinand looked at the Queen and after thinking for a while said, "Sit down,
Abu Dawood. Listen! If your girls were not accused of the crime of insulting the
church, then, it would not have been difficult to forget John Michael's murder,
however, after your success in this mission, we will be able to have the
punishment of your girls forgiven by the Lord Bishop."

"Your Highness! You will have to make a promise with this slave of yours.'

"We promise that the sentence of your girls will be forgiven but if you don't
fulfill your obligation, then, don't mention them in front of us next time."

Abu Dawood said, "Your Highness! I seek a time of a month. Today, the date is
the fifth in the lunar month. Please order the court to postpone to carry out
their sentence to the fourth of the next month. If I don't return successfully
from the mission within this time, then the court has the right to punish my
girls on the fourth of next month at sunset. My absence would mean that I am not
alive and would be waiting for my daughters in the next world."

Ferdinand said, "I will dispatch my orders for the Governor of Loja today itself
but before that you will have to tell us what are your chances of success."

Abu Dawood replied, "Badr bin Mughira wanted to marry my elder daughter, Rabia.
If he is alive and if I am successful in convincing him that the King will
forgive your past mistakes, then, for the sake of Rabia he would be willing to
come along with me."

The Queen and King were not ready to believe this but when Abu Dawood narrated
the events, with necessary additions and deletions, of his stay at the fort and
of the arrival of Badr bin Mughira at Al-Hamra, then they believed him to a
certain extent.

The King said, "What if he is not alive?"

Abu Dawood replied, "If he is not alive then you will hear that his successor
has been killed or you will see that an influential segment of their group is
extending its hand for a compromise with you."

Ferdinand said, "In both cases I promise to save the lives of your girls. Apart
from that I will consider you for deserving the biggest reward but if you are
not successful in this mission then the girls will certainly be punished. You
should come to be me at least two days before the fourth of next lunar month so
that I am able to stop the ruler of Loja in time from carrying out the orders of
the court."

Abu Dawood replied, "It is possible that I may come back within a couple of
weeks. If I stay away for some reason, even then, I will apprise you of
everything before the end of this month. If necessary, I might ask for more time
and I am sure, given the circumstances, Your Highness will surely grant me an
extension of a few more days. But if, by the end of this month, Your Highness
does not get any message from me, then, know that this slave has been sacrificed
for your sake."

Ferdinand said, "On your request, we will be able to grant you an extension of a
few more days."

Abu Dawood stepped forward, knelt on both his knees, kissed Ferdinand's hem and
then said, "Your Highness! Please pray for my success." Then he turned his
attention towards the Queen. The Queen had extended her hand towards him. Once
more he came down on his knees and kissed the Queen's hand and said, "Your
Highness! I know Michael is your relative. I am sorry about his death. After
performing the required services, I hope this servant of yours would be able to
reinstate his position of goodwill in your eyes."

The Queen said, "I will consider your success in this mission an expiation for
Michael's murder. An attack or two, from the rear, by the tribals are bothering
us."

After a while Abu Dawood was riding a faced-paced horse and heading towards the
valley of the falcons. He was witnessing the magnificent buildings of Al-Hamra
on one side and the tents of Ferdinand's army lined up on the other. He climbed
upon a cliff and halted his horse. For a while he kept looking at Al-Hamra and
after taking a sigh, he said, "Al-Hamra! A number of funerals of great kings
have left your four walls. Look at me. I am a funeral of someone else's desires.
My helplessness is the realization of someone's pleasant dreams." Abu Dawood
looked towards the tents of Ferdinand's troops and said in his heart,
"Historians will say that Granada was conquered by Ferdinand. It would be
written in history that Ferdinand's armies were stronger than the armies of
Granada. Alas! Before going, if only I could write on every stone of Al-Hamra
that if Abu Dawood was not there, historians wouldn't have remembered Ferdinand
as a conqueror. O sky of Granada! You are a witness that nations are not
destroyed by any Ferdinand of the enemy, but, there are their own Abu Dawood's
among them who send them to the pangs of death. Goodbye, Al-Hamra! Farewell,
Granada!!"

A little after Isha prayers, Badr bin Mughira was sitting with Bashir Bin
Hassan, Mansour Bin Ahmed and some other main commanders in a room of his
mountain fort. A day before, his army had returned after conducting a successful
assault at the border and now the details of a new attack was being finalized.

A soldiers entered the room and after offering his salutations respectfully,
said, "Four soldiers have arrested and brought a man from the border. They
believe he is a spy. The soldiers say that he refused to give his statement in
front of the Commander of the Border. His demand was that he should be presented
in front of the Supreme Commander."

Badr bin Mughira said, "At the moment, put him in prison and present him in
front of me tomorrow morning."

The soldier said, "But he insists on meeting you right away. He says that he has
got an important piece of news."

"What is his name?"

"He even refuses to tell his name. He says that if the Supreme Commander cannot
meet him then he should be presented in front of Bashir Bin Hassan."

After thinking for a while, Badr bin Mughira said, "Who can he be? Fine, call
him!"

After a while the soldiers brought Abu Dawood into the room. For a few seconds,
Badr and his companions kept glaring at him in amazement and concern instead of
anger. So far, Abu Dawood didn't believe that Badr bin Mughira was actually
alive. After looking at him a few times with frightened glances, he spoke and
said, "You must have been surprised to see me but I had to come."

Badr bin Mughira said, "Don't you think you have gone overboard in displaying
your bravery?"

"I know I deserve the worst punishment but even you cannot prescribe the
punishment I have suggested for myself, but, before that, I would like to say
something."

"You want to say that Ferdinand's army is huge, therefore, we should lay our
arms down."

"No. What I have come to tell you is that the court of Loja has sentenced Rabia
and Angela to be burned alive and if you want, you can save them."

Badr bin Mughira and Bashir Bin Hassan would at times be looking at each other
and then at Abu Dawood. Their glances were saying that Abu Dawood is lying. He
has brought a new trap for them but their heart was saying 'what if this news is
true?' In their sight Abu Dawood was the meanest person ever but despite this
conviction, imaging Rabia and Angela being burned alive was enough to get them
disturbed and worried.

Abu Dawood reiterated, "I know you won't believe me. You are right to consider
me a double-crosser, conman and a hypocrite but you and Bashir Bin Hassan know
Rabia and Angela far more than you know me. Rabia was already a Muslim and now
Angela too has become a Muslim. You know that they possess feminine modesty and
pride in their hearts. I have come to tell you that one of Ferdinand's knight
had assaulted their honor and they had killed that knight. There was a court
case for the crime of murder against Rabia and it had given her the death
penalty, but on the day of the verdict, Angela suddenly reached the court and
stated that she was the actual criminal of the murder of Ferdinand's knight. In
her statement she also confessed that she had become a Muslim. Apart from that,
she had insulted the court and the church and her speech against the government
was extremely rebellious. The court has declared Rabia to be a sorcerer and an
enemy to the government and church, and Angela has been charged with rebellion
against the government, apostasy and insulting the church and court, and both of
them have also been accused of the murder of Ferdinand's knight. Now they have
been condemned to be burned alive."

Badr bin Mughira enquired, "When?"

Appearing a bit worried, Abu Dawood replied, "I was waiting for an appropriate
time to reply to that question."

Looking towards his companions, Badr bin Mughira said, "Apart from Bashir and
Mansoor, everyone can leave."

When they had left the room, then Badr said, "Abu Dawood! A believer can't be
bitten by the same trick twice. If the city of Loja is not in the sky, then
believe me, my men will get to the bottom of this incident within a week and the
reason I am saying this is because if you have come here with the intention of
deceiving me, then, you should not be unaware of the consequences."

Abu Dawood replied, "I won't advise you on what you should do. Because of my
past deeds, you have all the right to be suspicious of me. You must be thinking
that this time, instead of Al-Hamra, I must have prepared a trap for you in Loja
but before sunrise I will be able to prove that whatever I have said regarding
Rabia and Angela is correct. Keep me in your custody until morning. I will
present my written statement to you in the morning. I want to be permitted to
write while I'm in custody."

Bashir said, "Don't try to become a puzzle for us. If the magic spell of your
tongue has been broken, then your writings too won't be able to fool us. We will
confirm every detail of your talk from Loja. You have not replied to Badr's
question. When will they be punished?"

"They will be burned alive on the fourth of the next lunar month at sunset."

Mansour said, "Do you want us to attack Loja on that day? We would have
entertained this request of Ferdinand but unfortunately Loja is a bit far from
here. You people have miscalculated our intelligence in military matters. Had he
spread his web of deceit in some city in the vicinity of the border, then, we
might have been compelled to respect his wish. Now if we are not ready to be
deceived then we should feel sorry for the stupidity of the one who did not
think that the Shaheens, whom we want to trap, are not deprived of vision."

Badr said, "Abu Dawood! Even if I suppose that Rabia and Angela have been
sentenced by the court, but knowing you, why should I believe that that you have
not cooperated with the court and government in the conspiracy hatched to give
us directions to attack Loja. Why shouldn't I think that all this is a game? The
government arrested them with your consent and the court has sentenced them with
your consent and they will be looking forward for us in Loja till the fourth of
the next lunar month. Maybe a dummy stack too might me prepared that day and you
might not even feel embarrassed in having your daughters stand at the stack but
you might be compelled to remove the web of conspiracy once you become hopeless
of our arrival. Alas! If only you had a little bit of compassion and you would
not have made a laughing stock of your daughters in front of the people of Loja
for the sake of a few pieces of humiliation. Remember! On the fourth of next
lunar month, my men will be present in Loja. They will stay there till the end
of this game and when I come to know that Rabia and Angela have been dropped
home after being removed from the fake stack then you will be hanged. Till that
time, you will be in my custody. You deserve the worst of punishments despite
this new crime. But I am willing to set you free if you tell me the complete
details of this conspiracy. I don't like your girls becoming a drama in front of
the people of Loja."

Abu Dawood replied "In the given circumstances had I given my life any worth,
then, I wouldn't have come here. I have asked until morning to submit a written
statement. At the moment I, I think whatever I have said so far is sufficient."

Badr said, "I will not refuse your request but I am sure that your writing won't
be more effective than your tongue."

Badr bin Mughira clapped his hands. A soldier entered inside. Badr said, "Take
him away and make preparations for his accommodation in a secure room. Take care
of his food, drink and rest. Grant him the facility of writing but there should
be no carelessness in guarding him."

Saying this he moved his attention towards Abu Dawood and said, "I also want to
tell you that trying to escape from here would be in vain."

Abu Dawood left the room with the soldier without giving any reply. Four more
soldiers, who stood outside with naked sword, also joined up with them.

For a while, Badr, Bashir and Mansoor kept staring at each other for a while in
silence. In a condition of restlessness, Badr got up and stood in front of the
window and started peeping outside. "Is this possible? Can this happen?" He was
asking himself. Despite consoling his conscience with a thousand consolations,
he would shiver at merely the imagination of Rabia being in the burning stack.
His heartbeats were saying to him that it can be possible for Rabia to do such a
thing. Rabia can risk her life to save her honor. It's quite possible for her
that she might have killed some knight. She loves Islam. She has the courage to
raise the voice of truth in the biggest of courts but no, no, Abu Dawood is a
fraud. All this is a deception."

Mansoor got up and went close to Badr and while putting his hand on his shoulder
said, "Badr! If this is true, then you should have the consolation that no wall
of Loja will be able stop our path."

Badr suddenly turned around, looked at him and said, "The lives of two girls of
Loja are not more valuable than the lives of the thousands of girls of Loja.
These mujahids are shouldering the responsibility of the entire nation. I won't
put my share of the burden on them. This matter will be limited to Bashir and me
only."

Both of them looked at Bashir and he stood up. It was difficult to analyze his
reaction. There was no effect of that storm on his face which was brewing deep
down in the bottom of his heart. For a while, he remained standing like a rock
and then left the room after saying, "I am going out to attend to some wounded
patients."  

After looking at Badr for a while, Mansoor said, "If Abu Dawood has convinced
you that his information is correct then I can compel you to confess that our
attack on Loja would be able to yield very vital results. Even now our main
issue is to divide Ferdinand's attention on two fronts."

The next morning Badr, Bashir, Mansoor and some other officers were having
breakfast when a soldier nervously entered into the room and gave the news that,
instead of his bed, Abu Dawood is lying unconscious on the floor. These people
went running into his room.

Abu Dawood was lying with his face on the floor. Bashir Bin Hassan quickly
turned him around after putting his hand on his pulse and said after opening his
eyes, "He is dead. I think he poisoned himself."

In the corner of one side of the room, a pen, an inkpot and some papers were
lying on a small table Badr bin Mughira picked up a few papers that had Abu
Dawood's writings on them. On Bashir's cue, the soldiers picked up Abu Dawood
and lay him on the bed.

After frisking him, Bashir Bin Hassan recovered a small silver box from his
pocket. After opening and taking a look inside it, he said, "He has taken that
poison whose antidote is not known to this day."

The rest of the soldiers of the fort too were gathering in front of the door of
his room. Closing the door after ordering everyone else, besides Bashir and
Mansoor, to leave the room, Badr said, "Bashir! We were wrong. This is his
letter. Read it."

Initially, Bashir extended his hand a bit indifferently towards the papers but
after reading a few sentences his entire concentration became focused on this
writing.

Badr said, "Bashir! Read it aloud. I have merely seen a few lines."

Bashir got startled, looked towards his companions and started reading aloud.
This was the content of the last letter from Abu Dawood that was addressed to
Badr bin Mughira:

"You will get my letter at the time when I am not in this world. Without this
disgraceful death I had no other way of convincing you that my news regarding
Rabia and Angela is correct and I had come prepared for this. With my death
those mean desires and filthy intentions will perish because of which I became a
nation seller and a traitor in your sight. The truth is that the Abu Dawood who
dreamt of ruling Granada, who had desired to build palaces for himself on the
corpses of his nation, had died a few days ago. He had become compelled to
strangle himself at that very moment when Ferdinand refused the plea of mercy
for his daughters and that Abu Dawood whose corpse lies in front of you was
present in front of you, the previous night, only in the capacity of a father.
The issue of saving the lives of his two daughters was in front of him.
Therefore, my second death is a death of a father and whatever I am writing
before my death and in a situation when lying won't benefit me, I am feeling a
kind of relief in saying the truth.

All you know about me is that I conspired to kill you after calling you in
Al-Hamra and instigated Abu Abdullah to revolt but my crimes are far from that.
I am your father's killer. I am the one who wrote to him and invited him to
Toledo. The first time when I came in the capacity of a guest, I was Ferdinand's
spy and the attack by the enemy on your fort during the night was on my behest.
I got Moosa arrested in Al-Hamra. I had convinced Abu Abdullah to become a
nation seller. In Granada, the Muslim spies from Andalus who have been sent to
propagate against the jihad were trained by me. You have asked me, when will
Angela and Rabia be punished and I have told you that they will be burned alive
on the fourth of the next lunar month. You must be surprised as to why the court
has given them so much time. At night if I had told you the reason then you
would have suspected me even more. To get a time for a month I had to promise
Ferdinand that if Badr bin Mughira is alive then I will present him in front one
you under one pretext or another. I had also promised him that I will create
schism in the ranks of the mujahideen. Against this, Ferdinand promised to save
the lives of Rabia and Angela.

Abu Dawood, the politician, might never have confessed to these crimes of his
under any condition but Angela and Rabia's father sees their benefit only in
this that before dying, he should remove all his masks. After me, if the lives
of these girls can be saved by some plan of yours, then, I entrust Rabia to you
and Angela to Bashir Bin Hassan. For quite sometime, I knew that they had chosen
both of you to be their friend and protector but in the scheme of my life there
was no place for the respect of their wishes. I viewed them as a father only
when I got to know, that in my absence, the court of Loja has sentenced them to
death. I don't feel the need of pleading you to save their lives. You know that
the relation between Rabia and Angela was only a bond of blood and this relation
will end with my death. I won't see their outcome. Their screams won't reach my
ears from the burning stack. Even if I was alive they wouldn't have regretted
while dying that they were being separated from their father. They have no
interest in my world. They are only interested in the world in which you and
Bashir breathe in. They have no attachment with my forts in the air. They
wouldn't have any regret in leaving the palace of the governor in Loja. At the
burning stack, they would only imagine that valley in which they had found a
secure habitat for their wandering souls. They would look towards the sky and
say, "Badr and Bashir, where are you?"

My sight cannot get to the bottom of the depth of the ocean of life in which you
have found each other. All I know is that they have jumped into that ocean only
because of you. Now if the flame of their life is going to be extinguished then
the reason for that is because you have instilled the desire in them to play
around with storms. That honor which compelled Rabia or Angela to kill John
Michael was actually granted by you and Bashir. That courage which taught a
girl's feeble hands to use a javelin, that tongue that gave a rebellious speech
in the court, was an interpretation of your views. I couldn't see Rabia and
Angela in prison but someone who did see them has told me that they don't regret
even a bit of what they have done. It is their firm belief that if God desires
for them to live, then, He is capable of converting the fire of the stack to a
garden. Badr and Bashir! You know better than me as to who has produced that
faith their hearts.

If you do not deny on taking all of these things on your head, then I would say
that Rabia and Angela's matter is yours and Bashir's matter and that I do not
have to worry about it. After handing over the responsibility of saving their
lives to you, I am freeing myself of it. I can't tell you the way in which you
can save their lives. That is your duty.

I would like to say something regarding the future of Spain. Time has proven
that whatever I have thought or done till today was wrong. I chose flowers for
myself and spread thorns for my nation but my share of the flowers became the
adornment of Ferdinand's lap. My hands and feet are wounded with thorns and I
don't know the culmination of my nation. My politics is finished. I am dying a
death of humiliation and failure. You might consider my suicide hateful but
today I have come to realize the fact that a death of dignity is only for those
people who select a path of a life of dignity.

I have not said anything regarding my wife. I don't consider her worthy of
mentioning. To save Angela, she stood as a witness against Rabia. If she had not
taken poison after hearing the court's decision, then, I would have strangled
her with my own hands.

With the culmination of this letter, I have written the final lines of the book
of my life.

Abu Dawood

"Angela and Rabia's father"