
<!-- Chapter Four -->

# Their Host

Rabia opened her eyes on gaining consciousness. In the candlelight, she saw
that she lay in a spacious room. Abu Dawood sat on one of the chairs near her
bed while a youthful stranger sat on another chair. Seeing his daughter had
gained consciousness, he bowed and placed his hands on her forehead and said,
"Rabia, my daughter."

Rabia asked in a frightened tone, "Where am I?"

Abu Dawood replied, "Daughter! We have reached a very secure location and
we're a guest of a person under whose refuge we are safe from every danger.
And this is your physician."

Maria lay on a bed on the other side of the room. Angela sat with the support
of a pillow on another bed. Gesturing towards them, Rabia asked her father,
"How are they?"

Abu Dawood replied, "They are fine."

Another youth entered the room. Rabia's glances focused on him for a while.

Abu Dawood stood up.

"Please remain seated!" The youth stepped forward and while placing his hand
casually on Abu Dawood's shoulders said, "I just came to see how your daughter
was doing."

Abu Dawood replied, "She has just opened her eyes. I am sorry that we have put
you through so much trouble."

The youth replied, "I wish we had a suitable place where guests like you could stay."

Angela got up from her bed and quietly came and sat down besides Rabia.
"Rabia, how do you feel?" she said while placing her hand affectionately over
her forehead.

"I am fine. There is pain in my leg and head. How is mother?"

"She is fine."

The first youth, who was discharging his duty as their physician, said, "I
think it's not good for her to talk right now. I will give her some medicine
to sleep. Complete rest is very important for her."

The other youth asked in Arabic, "I hope she did not get much hurt?"

They physician replied, I will be able to give you a proper answer in the
morning. However, there is nothing to worry about."

Abu Dawood asked, "In your opinion, when will she become healthy?"

"She will be good in no time and I think you should take some rest too."

The next day when Rabia awoke after a long, deep sleep, she saw Angela
standing by the room's window, peeping outside. Maria sat on her bed with the
support of a pillow.

"Angela! Angela!" Rabia whispered to her.

Startled, Angela looked at her, came and sat down beside her.

Rabia said, "Did you see the two strangers that were here last night?"

Angela replied, "I was looking at them right now while standing by the window."

"I thought it was only a dream."

Angela said, "If you come to know where we are at right now, you would say
that we are dreaming with our eyes wide open."

Rabia said, "Maybe I...fell off the coach and became unconscious. But this
accident happened a little after noon. Then when I regained consciousness, it
was night. There was a candle lit in the room. I think we are at some check
post in Granada.

"No, we have strayed far from it. You were transported here in an unconscious
state. Rabia you always say that I have no place for you in my heart. But, by
the Holy Mary! The whole way I cried for you. We might have reached here by
midnight. Father says that the person treating you is the best surgeon in
Hispania."

"But where are we right now?"

"Rabia! You won't believe that right now we're in the valley of The Falcon.

"In the valley of The Falcon? No, you are joking." Rabia tried to sit-up but
"could not. She clasped her aching head with both her hands and lied down.
""Angela! Angela! Tell me honestly. Stop bothering me."

"What I'm telling you is the truth."

"But I can't understand this."

"Rabia! You won't even believe that you have seen The Frontier Falcon. Not only
have you seen him but even...I'm afraid that you might start fighting. But, by
the Holy Mary, I'm not lying. You have even had the honor of spending a few
moments close to him."

"What do you mean?" Rabia enquired anxiously.

"What I mean to say is that you have spent some precious moments of your life
with him."

"Mother! Mother! Ask Angela to stop."

Maria said while laughing, "Angela says the truth but no need to worry. You
were unconscious."

Frustrated, Rabia started looking towards Angela. While controlling her laugh,
she said, "Rabia! There is no cause for concern. He transported you along with
him to this place on his horse. If I had been unconscious, it would have
happened with me too. I heard that The Falcon would be an extremely, barbaric
man, but maybe he's some angel. Father had become hopeless that you would ever
gain consciousness but he felt your pulse and put you up on his horse and
while consoling Father, he said, 'I am taking her to the best surgeon of
Andalus and I'm sure her life will be saved! You can come along with my
comrades. Take me as your friend." And Father said, 'I don't know who you are
but if you save my daughter's life, then, a case filled with gold and jewels
is yours.'"

He said, "Don't take me for people who do good for a reward. My comrades will
even protect your gold and jewels." Saying this he sped his horse. When we
reached here by midnight, we were told that you had arrived here way before
us."

"Okay, so how did you know that he is the Frontier Falcon?"

"Father had just told us that before you woke up."

"So the masked man who endangered his life to stop the horses of our coach was
the Frontier Falcon?"

"Yes and yesterday, late at night when you gained consciousness, he had come to
see how you were faring. Before that, he had come and enquired about you two
or three time. He came in the morning too. He was probably going on a mission
since he was dressed in a soldier's attire. He had also told Father that he
might not be able to come until the evening and I believe your physician sat
on the chair the whole night. When I awoke, he was checking your pulse."

Rabia asked, "Where is Father?"

Angela replied, "He and the physician have gone to the other room to see the
coachman. The poor soul has been injured very badly."

After three days, Rabia's headache had eased considerably but because of the
pain in her knee, she could not walk without support. The cavalryman who had
saved her life and the physician treating her were Badr Bin Mughira and Bashir
Bin Hassan. Abu Dawood was surprised how The Frontier Falcon suddenly reached
there for their help. In the past three days, he had, more or less, gained the
trust of Badr Bin Mughira after telling Ferdinand and his rulers' tales of
oppression. After Friday prayers, he delivered a passionate speech in front of
Badr Bin Mughira's comrades depicting a sorry state of the Christian's Muslim
subjects in Andalus, leaving the crowd emotional. Then, he narrated
spirit-elevating stories of Andalus. He praised Badr Bin Mughira's and his
comrades war of independence immensely and concluded, "We should not have any
misunderstand about our future. If we do not decide to unite and organize for
a decisive war against Ferdinand, then, we would gradually be annihilated. My
message to you is that a courageous death is better than a coward's life. And
this is the message I'm taking to the people of Granada. I'm sure after
listening to the atrocities, Abul Hassan will not delay in pronouncing jihad
against the enemies of Islam.

After the speech, when he was returning with Badr and Bashir to his room,
then, Badr Bin Mughira said, "Once you are in Granada, you'll be able to pump
a new spirit into the Muslims."

Abu Dawood replied in grief, "I'm just doing my duty. But people don't usually
pay much heed to a stranger."

Badr said, "No. Now they have awoken."

Bashir hesitantly asked, "If you don't mind, may I dare to ask a question."

Abu Dawood replied, "If you too would hesitate to ask me something, then, that
would be very wrong."

Bashir said, "God has bestowed you with immense religious knowledge and you
practically get up for Tahajjud prayer every night too and your tongue is
magical but I'm surprised that...you..."

Abu Dawood interrupted to complete his sentence, saying, "You're amazed that
despite all these things, how come my own wife and daughter are still adhering
to the Christian faith? Is this what you wanted to say?"

Bashir was surprised and said, "Yes, this is what I wanted to ask. I'm sure
you must have a logical reason for this."

"Well, there is a reason but I wouldn't call it a logical one. I think in this
regards a religious fatwa from mujahids like you would be more appropriate.
This is my second wife. The first one was a Muslim and her daughter too is a
Muslim. But this wife of mine is from a Christian family of Merci and before
getting married to her, I was aware of the fact that living in a Christian
kingdom, I would not be able to convince her to leave her faith. Despite this,
I went ahead and married her so that I would be considered a liberal Muslim in
a Christian land. I couldn't stand the injustices and humiliation of my
people. I wanted to incline them towards revolution. In used my Christian wife
as a shield. To this day, I have not revealed my objectives to her. She think
that I'm no different from thousands of those Andalusian Muslims who have
drifted far from their religion. In fact, she even go to fellow Christians and
says that I am closer to Christianity than to Islam."

"The advantage I have taken from this is that I have prepared many
revolutionary groups of Muslims in different cities. You'll be amazed but I
have been in Castile for the past 10 years. I have access to the houses of the
Christian nobles but till today they have not found out that I'm working
against their kingdom. You have full right to criticize my modus operandi but
God is aware of my intentions. Before getting married to this woman, I felt
that the government's spies were after me. But after getting married to her my
problems have eased considerably."

"And the result of whatever I have done over the past 20 years would be
apparent when Abul Hassan or any other successor to Granada's throne after
him, would proclaim jihad against the Christians. Now, you might want to know
the reason of my fleeing from there. I have not run away because the
government has uncovered my conspiracies. The only reason is that a youth from
the royal family of Castile wanted to marry my younger daughter. They had
persuaded my wife on the matter and because of my past conduct. My wife was
convinced that I would never object to the marriage of my daughter to a
Christian youth. But when I found out, you can imagine my condition.
Previously, I had thought to go to Granada once my work was done and convert
my Christian daughter and wife to Islam. Now I have realized that it was too
late for that. When I opposed this proposal, I received an order from
Ferdinand. Now the only option I had was to migrate. But I was afraid that if
they found out that I wanted to migrate to Granada, then, my wife might not
support me willingly and would snatch away my daughter, who does not approve
of the proposal."

Bashir asked, "The girl didn't agree to get married to the youth of the royal family?"

"No. The youth had lost an eye after an arrow hit it."

Badr Bin Mughira posed a question, "So, how did you get here?"

"I did this judiciously and stopped opposing the proposal. I asked a friend of
mine to write a letter and took the help of his servant to deliver the letter
to my house. Acting on my instructions, he delivered the letter to my house
during the night. In that letter I had asked him to write that Angela's
maternal grandfather was on the death bed and he wishes to see his daughter
and granddaughter before leaving this immortal world. After receiving such
news, women seldom go into details. Because the letter also mentioned
something about inheritance, my wife prepared herself for the long journey to
Merci. Angela had despised the marriage. The end result was that we decided to
go first thing in the morning. I had already briefed Rabia about it. She said
she would definitely like to meet her step mother's father. When we were
having dinner, that monocular youth came. When he got to know that we were
going to Merci, he too wanted to come along. When I objected, Maria sided with
him saying that the journey would become easier if he came along and I was
compelled to surrender."

Early next morning when we were getting up on our coach he came galloping and
informed us that he has sent orders to the check posts along the way to get
horses ready for our trip. Because of him, we did not face any problems along
the way, but as Merci come closer and closer my anxiety kept increasing. His
horse would either remained in front or in the back of our coach.

The coachman was an old servant of mine and he knew about my intentions. He
advised that we would not be able to reach Granada without getting rid of this
person. So, I was compelled to take a tough decision. One afternoon when Maria
dozed off in the coach,  in Angela's lap, the, I said to Angela, "Angela! Do
you know where I'm taking you?"

She replied, "You are taking me to Merci, where else?"

I said, "I want to save you from this person so instead of Merci, I'm going to Granada."

Filling her eyes with tears she said, "I would rather die than get married to
this person. I'm ready to go anywhere to save myself from him,."

I said, "A little further down, this road separates from Granada's road, but
he's following us like a shadow. If we change direction, he'll stop us on the
next check post. There's only one way we can get rid of him."

Angela thought for a while and said, "Father! At the moment he's behind us.
You have a bow and you know how to fire an arrow."

I said, "But I fear your mother."

She said, "Mother is asleep. Now hurry up!"

When I looked out the rear window, he was about 50 yards away and was singing
a vulgar song. I asked the coachman to reduce the speed of the coach. When the
distance between us became less, I fired an arrow and then asked the coachman
to speed up the coach. He fell off the horse when the arrow struck him.
Therefore, I continued my journey with full speed. When Maria awoke we told
her that he has gone ahead of us and after that we didn't tell her that we
have changed our path. But as soon as we crossed the border's last check post,
we saw a few riders behind us. Judging from their speed I got suspicious and
asked the coachman. The road was really bad because of the rain. Anyhow, I
thank God that the coach broke at that moment when you had already arrived to
help us. We got to the border probably because they must have looked for us on
Merci's road and not finding us there, they changed direction towards the road
to Granada. This is the answer to why haven't I converted Maria and Angela to
Islam. Now, I would like to ask a question."

Badr said, "Now you have the right to ask anything."

Abu Dawood said, "Your territory is quite far from our path. Granted that a
falcon's territory of flight is not defined but you came to our rescue as if
you were standing there all prepared beforehand."

Badr Bin Mughira replied, "Actually, our relations with the Sultanate of
Granada have recently become quite cordial. They have handed over the security
of some of the areas of this region to me and sometimes I have to go out
inspecting the check posts. Today, too, I came out to check whether the guards
were at their vigil or cowed in their shells. I encountered you on the way. My
actual residence is quite far from here. This fort that has been graced by
your presence is at one end of our territory."

Abu Dawood said, "I must laud the sense of choice to whoever has given you the
authority to oversee the border. And if Granada was to give you the duty of
guarding all of its borders then, it would be its good fortune."

"No, I don't have the capacity for such a huge responsibility."

Abu Dawood said, "I do not know anyone in Granada. If you would be kind enough
to give me a few good names, then, that would make it easy for me."

Badr Bin Mughira said, "I will write to one such person through whom you will
know the whole of Granada. But I think you might have to stay here for several
days. Bashir, how long will it take their daughter to be able to walk?"

Bashir replied, "God willing, she'll be completely healthy in a week's time."

Because of its location, this fort in which Abu Dawood was staying as a guest
of Badr Bin Mughira, was not safe from foreign attacks. Even its boundry walls
were not strong enough to withstand a major attack. After the meeting with
Al-Zeghel, Badr Bin Mughira used to stay here occasionally whenever he came to
inspect the border check posts. This fort was within the Granada's border and
since Castile and Granada had not declared war on each other, Badr felt no
danger of an immediate attack and so he had stationed very few soldiers for
its security. However, his spies and guards were always in and around
Castile's border, keeping a watchful eye. After Abu Dawood's arrival, he had
increased the number of guards. Usually, he would stay at this fort for two to
four days to look at the new arrangements and to give instructions to the
officers of the check post. Then, he would return to his residence in the
forest to give training to new soldiers and officers arriving from Granada but
because of Abu Dawood, he had to stay here against his wishes. However, he
would go every second or third day to give necessary instructions to his
warriors and return. Although Abu Dawood had gained his trust a little after
telling him a concocted story, he was not inclined to allow any stranger on
his side of the border without a written recommendation from Al-Zeghel or
Moosa. This is the reason he had called Bashir Bin Hassan here from the forest
instead of taking Rabia to his residence for treatment.

Apart from her father, who had married a Christian girl a year after the
demise of her mother, Rabia had no one in this world. When she grew up, she
was told that she was less than a year when her mother died. She had spent
most of her initial 13 years in Toledo with her maternal uncle. Due to the
increasing high handedness of the Christians, like other people, many people
of her maternal uncle's family were compelled to migrate to Granada. Rabia's
uncle wanted to take her along, but Abu Dawood opposed it and so Rabia had to
stay with her father in Castile. In Castile, the environment of her father's
house was totally new to Rabia. Her stepmother and stepsister were strong
adherents of the Christian faith. Greed for fame and fortune had thrown her
father away from her ancestor's religion. The Christians of Castile knew him
as a liberal Muslim. He would recite the Quran in Christian gatherings and
would make intellectual speeches. Priests of the upper class knew that
although disguised as a Muslim, he was a bitter enemy to the adherents of that
faith. Therefore, unlike other Muslims, they did not insist on him to become
Christian.

Some farsighted Muslims did suspect him, but he had convinced the majority of
the people that whatever he is doing for the Muslims, like attending the
King's court and visiting churches, could not be accomplished sitting in a
mosque. He would go to different cities and prepare covert groups of freedom
fighters. He would also get well-acquainted with the "fanatic" Muslims of that
city and would disappear after reporting them to Christian authorities. The
Christian authorities would capture them one-by-one and execute them without a
trial. For these services, Abu Dawood had already received a gold medal from
Ferdinand and a silver cross from the Lord Bishop of Castile.

Rabia was the direct opposite of her father's traits and habit. This could
probably be because she had spent her first 13 years at her uncle's home. The
education she received at her uncle's home taught her to love Islam and the
Muslims' current sense of helplessness and persecution gave birth to
sentiments of hatred in her heart for the Christian government of Castile. The
feelings during childhood are not permanent but the bitter environment of her
father's house kept reminding her of her uncle's home and the interesting
moments of those thoughts became part of her sad and bitter life. When a
priest of the city would come to teach the Bible to her stepsister, Angela,
she would remember the elderly-faced scholar who came to her uncle's home to
teach her the Quran. And when Angela's mother would ask her too to study the
Bible along with her stepsister, she would run into the other room, sit and
open up the Quran.

Every Sunday Angela would go to the church along with her mother while Rabia
stayed with her neighbor's wife, who also happened to be her mother's friend.

After living in Castile for two years, she came to know that her uncle along
with a few more members of her family had left Granada for Morocco. Prior to
this, she used to console herself saying that one day destiny would give her
the opportunity to go to Granada and meet her dear ones from Toledo. She often
supplicated to God for this to happen. However, she was left heart-broken on
learning that they had left for Morocco. For several days on end she shed
tears in hiding.

Despite Abu Dawood's shortcomings, he loved Rabia immensely. Maria often
complained that he loved Rabia more than Angela but he always silenced her by
saying that Angela does not need his love since her mother is alive while
Rabia has no one besides him.

Maria was a harsh-tempered woman and because of her behavior Rabia had come to
despise her. Angela inherited arrogance and contemptuousness from her mother
but within her was heart that, unlike her mother, couldn't return Rabia's love
with scorn. At times she even sided with her in case she felt that her mother
was being unfair. But like her mother, she too was extremely biased when it
came to religion. Rabia would not get involved in religious discussions but
when some of the things that Maria and Angela would say would become
unbearable, then, she would be compelled to quarrel. These quarrels had more
to do with emotions than logic and reason. Maria and Angela would try to
impress her with Ferdinand's pomp and the magnificence of the rulers of Rome.
She would reply by telling the legends of Tariq, Moosa, Abdul Rehman the Great
and Yusuf Bin Tashfeen.

Maria and Angela would say that one of their priests had dreamt that God has
chosen Ferdinand to drive the Muslims out of Andalus and she would reply
saying that she has dreamt seeing Abul Hassan waving the flag of Islam in
Castile.

Like the rest of the Christians of Castile, Maria and Angela too rejoiced at
the news of Mughira's assassination but Rabia was so grief-stricken that she
did not speak to anyone for three days. Then, on hearing the news of
Santiago's defeat at the hands of the Frontier Falcon, the degree of her
happiness was as intense as the grief of her stepmother and stepsister.

Later whenever a fight ensued in their house because of religion, the name of
the Frontier Falcon would somehow be mentioned. As much as Maria and Angela
would get irritated at the mention of his name, Rabia would exaggerate and
elaborate his many endeavors. At night when Maria and Angela would kneel in
front of the statue of the Holy Mary and pray for the victory of the
Christians, Rabia would go to another room, pray and supplicate for the
victory of the Frontier Falcon. One day Maria complained to Abu Dawood that
Rabia thinks well of the enemies of their king. Abu Dawood reacted by scolding
her and later tried to make her understand, saying, "If you don't want the
government to declare us being rebels and hang us, then, for God's sake please
take care in expressing your feelings about the Frontier Falcon. I am not
stopping you from following your mother's religion, but, this does not mean
that whatever respect I have gained at Ferdinand's court should go down the
drain because of you. The Frontier Falcon is a rebel and in good time he will
be crushed by Ferdinand's forces."

For the first time she realized that despite her father's knowledge and
maturity he was no different than those Andalusian Muslims who, after becoming
hopeless of an Islamic renaissance, had pinned their entire expectations on
their Christian masters.

After this, she started keeping a closer watch over her father's activities.
Gradually, she started feeling that the real reason behind her father's often
disappearance from home was not a passion for travel and tourism but it was to
render vital services undercover to Ferdinand. She now began to feel her
loneliness and foreignness. This feeling grew with the progression of her age.
The enthusiasm that bloomed in her heart while contemplating the bright future
of the Muslims withered away. She became mentally numb. Life became a never
ending cycle of day and night.

But when she learned that she would be going to Granada with Abu Dawood, her
long lost, wild emotions suddenly sprouted back to life. She was not aware of
Abu Dawood's real objectives. However, she felt her heart thump faster with
every stop toward the new travel destination. Vivid scenes of Granada would
wander in front of her eyes. The name of the Frontier Falcon was mentioned
several times during this trip. Maria was terrified of him and despite Abu
Dawood's protests, she would ask at every check post, "Is there a danger of
the Frontier Falcon's attack in our path?" The officers of the check post
would try to console her but she would ask the same question at the next one.

One day when she was posing similar queries to an inn's owner, Abu Dawood
addressed him and said, "Why don't you just tell her that the Frontier Falcon
doesn't raise his hand on women." Rabia would listen to the replies of her
stepmother's queries with interest and her imagination would take her from the
beautiful city of Granada to the mountains and forests, where a mysterious
mujahid had given an exemplary defeat to Count Santiago a few years ago. But
she would be saddened at the claim that her father had made that their path
was far away from the territory in which the Frontier Falcon's flew.

From the rumors that were rampant in Castile, about the Frontier Falcon, she
imagined him to be a dreadful, elderly-aged man. But he turned out to be quite
different. More that valor, his looks oozed out love and compassion. His
masculine charisma had an attraction that would have impressed Rabia even if
she had not heard of the stories of his bravery.

Having a glimpse of the most heroic mujahid of her people was the greatest
gift of Rabia's life. But when she learned that the masked man, who endangered
his life to stop her coach, was none other than the Frontier Falcon, and when
Angela told her that when she was unconscious, he rushed with her on his horse
and brought her here to the fort, then, for the first time, she realized her
importance in the vast system of the universe.

Until her condition was critical, he kept visiting her day and night. But when
she started becoming healthy, he seldom came into her room

Bashir Bin Hassan would come to change her bandage twice a day. Angela would
anxiously wait to hear the footsteps of this young and pleasant physician and
would rush to open the door for him. And when he would attend to Rabia, she
would come and sit close to her and would try to gain his attention.

She would ask, "When will my sister be healthy enough to travel?"

He would heedlessly reply, "Very soon."

"My father says that you heal any patient you touch but my teeth still hurt
from the fall off the coach that day."

"It's your delusion. Your teeth are just fine."

"No, No, it's not my delusion. I wasn't able to sleep last night because of the pain."

Maria said from the other end of the room "Please do have a good look at them
again. She actually was groaning with pain last night."

"Very well, I will have a look."

After Bashir Bin Hassan finished dressing Rabia's wounds and examined Angela's
teeth, pondered for a while and asked her mother, "Has she complained of
toothache before?"

Maria replied, "No."

He would ponder again while Angela looked the other way, suppressing her
laughter. Bashir Bin Hassan said, "There could be some problem at the root of
the teeth but apparently there are no visible signs of that. Anyway, I will
give a new medicine. Rub it nicely over your gums."

He would then go away after giving her the medicine. To escape her mother's
wrath she would go and stand near the window that opened outwards. Then,
without applying the medicine, would start spitting after massaging her gums
with her fingers.

At times, she would press her gums and spit out some of her blood along with
her saliva and her mother would say, "Daughter! No matter how good a physician
he might be but he won't be free from religious bias."

Angela would immediately reply, "No mother dear! I have been relieved a lot by
his medicine."

When Maria would not be around, she would have a whole hearted laugh. Rabia
would rebuke her and she would become serious and say, "Rabia, my sister!
Don't feel bad. I won't do it again but I wonder why I get mischievous when I
see him. I know I'm making a fool of myself but some stupidity can be
interesting. While examining my teeth, he seems a bit upset and starts
pondering. I feel like laughing out loud...and would like him to do the same."

Rabia would get concerned and say, "Don't be stupid, Angela. Your world and
his are poles apart. You must give respect to his stature."

Angela would say laughing, "You're worrying unnecessarily. Trust me, it was
only a joke."

One evening when Abu Dawood was present, Bashir Bin Hassan was dressing
Rabia's wounds. Maria said, "Angela could not sleep last night too. Please
have a good look at her teeth."

Abu Dawood seconded his wife's statement. Bashir said, "Today I have brought a
very effective medicine. God willing, your daughter should be well after three
days. Saying this, Bashir poured out a does from the bottle onto a saucer and
while giving it to Angela said, "Drink this."

"A syrup?" she asked in amazement.

Suppressing back his smile Bashir said, "Your pain in the teeth would be
relieved after drinking this."

Angela hesitantly drew the saucer close to her mouth but immediately spit it
out after tasting it and screamed, "This is very bitter. I will not drink it."

Bashir got up, scolded her and said, "You have to drink it."

Intimidated by Bashir's unexpected scolding she said, "But I will throw-up."

Bashir answered, "Then, I will give you more of this medicine. I have a lot of
it in stock."

Angela said apologetically, "So, I should drink it?"

Abu Dawood said, "Yes my daughter. Drink it up. It's for your own good."

As usual Angela while looking at Bashir said, "I won't be harmed by this, would I?"

Abu Dawood said in anger, "Harm with Bashir Bin Hassan's medicine?! Angela
you're so ignorant."

After a moment's indecision Angela gulped the unbearably bitter medicine down
her throat.

Smiling, Bashir said, "I shall leave this bottle here. If you feel the pain in
your teeth again, have another dose of the medicine. Apart from the teeth,
it's also beneficial for the stomach. Today you should feel quite hungry."

After Bashir and Abu Dawood had left, Angela, biting her lips looked towards
Rabia, who burst into laughter.

After sulking for a bit, Angela, too, was laughing as a bewildered Maria said,
"Both of you are crazy."

The next day, praising Bashir Bin Hassan in front of her husband, Maria was
saying, "This physician is indeed very competent."

The fort was situated at an elevation. Its boundary was as high as the height
of two men. There were houses built along its gated wall. Its lower levels had
the barracks for the soldiers while the upper levels had the officers'
residences. The stables were along the walls opposite this wall. On the third
side was a mosque while the fourth had ruins of old houses.

At one corner of the upper level were two wonderful rooms that were given to
Abu Dawood and his children. The room where the beds of Abu Dawood's wife and
daughters lay was quite spacious. Its windows and ventilators opened outwards.
Since the level of the residences was about twice the height of the boundary,
the view of the lush green valley and a series of high mountains could be seen
from the window. The center of the valley displayed sparkling water from a
small stream.

The access to this room was through two doors that opened into Abu Dawood's
room. It also comprised a huge balcony facing the patio. On the right side of
Abu Dawood's room was a small cabin where his coach man was recuperating and
on its left side were the room of Badr Bin Mughira and Bashir Bin Hassan.
Further down were lodges of the army officers.

During the day, Badr Bin Mughira would hardly find the time to sit with Abu
Dawood. Early morning, he would set out on his horse to supervise the border
check posts. Sometimes, he would stay out during the night too, but, in his
absence, Bashir Bin Hassan would carry out the duties of Abu Dawood's
hospitality. Not only was Bashir an excellent physician, but he was also a
scholar par excellence too. However, he too was quite impressed by Abu
Dawood's command over history, philosophy and other sciences. During the day,
he too, had to go out tending to patients. But on returning by evening, he
used to sit with Abu Dawood and discuss various topics. He would also have
food with Abu Dawood in his room.

Even Badr would spent his free time whenever he returned from his trips.
Bashir used to talk with Abu Dawood late into the night while Badr was not in
the habit of chatting a lot after dinner. Usually, he sat for a while and
would get up and go to his room. Rabia, Angela and Maria would have dinner
separately in their room.

Rabia's ears would be alerted towards the conversation in the other room with
Abu Dawood only when she would hear Badr's voice. On seeing that she had
recovered, Badr had stopped coming to her room to check on her health. So,
whenever he entered Abu Dawood's room, his first question would be, "How is
your daughter?"

Rabia felt that his initial attention was merely caused by emotions were
merely a result of compassion. Angela was more of an unreserved person. When
only Bashir would be with Abu Dawood in the other room, she would barge into
the room asking her father something or the other. After tasting the bitter
medicine, she was completely relieved of the pain in her teeth. However, her
interest in the young physician grew.

Abu Dawood's coachman had recovered completely. One night when Badr and Bashir
were having dinner with Abu Dawood, he said, "My coach man wants to go back to
his country. His wife and children are in Castile and I had promised to send
him back as soon as we reached Granada. He also wanted to emigrate with his
family from Castile but because of my haste he could not bring them along.
It's going to take us a while to reach Granada and he seems quite concerned
for his family. So, I'm thinking to see him off from here. Can you help
prepare for his journey?

Badr replied, "My men will take him to the other side of the border but there
is no guarantee that it is important that he speaks to no one about my
activities once he reaches his destination."

Abu Dawood replied, "I would not guarantee anything on part of someone else
but for him I can say this much that he has been with me for the past 20 years
and I have tested him a number of times. He is aware of hundreds of secrets of
mine and if he were to reveal only one of them to my enemies, you would not
have seen me standing here. Even now I have left half of my wealth at his
place and I'm sure that even after 20 years I shall be able to take it back.
The fact is that I rely more on him than on my Christians wife and daughter
and this is not because of some extra ordinary quality in me. But this is
because he thinks that I am a bitter enemy of the Christian government and
therefore he would give his life for me. When he was 14 years old, the
governor of Castile hanged his father in a conspiracy case and he witnessed
the terrible sight with his own eyes. You don't know how much he respects you.
Today he was saying that, God-willing, he would leave his children with me in
Granada and join the ranks of your mujahideen."

Badr Bin Mughira said, "How unfortunate that I did not show much interest in
him. Anyways, whenever he wants, my men will help him to get to the other side
of the border."

"He is very worried about his children. I think I should send him tomorrow
morning itself."

Angela and Maria were listening to their conversation at the door and both
were looking at each other in amazement.

Badr Bin Mughira got up and went to his room while Bashir and Abu Dawood
talked till late into the night Maria strolled restlessly in her room. She
knew neither the coachman's wife nor his children were in Castile. Her concern
was whether Abu Dawood would actually prove to be an enemy of the Christian
government.

Rabia fell asleep by midnight but Angela n Maria whispered to each other till
late. Time and again, she would repeat her husband's words, "I rely more on
him than on my Christian wife and daughter."

While consoling her mother, Angela said, "Father is not that naïve to speak so
openly, knowing that we can hear him from this room. I am sure there was some
wisdom behind what he said."

Maria said, "I simply cannot trust a Muslim. I feel that I have committed a
grave mistake by leaving my country with him. What will we do if he forces us
to become Muslim once were are in Granada?"

"Mother, I assure you that father is not interested in religion. And I am sure
if you ask him as to what is going on, I'm sure he will give you a
satisfactory answer."

"And until I am not satisfied I won't be able to sleep. But this physician is
showing no sign of leaving. Open the door a bit and call your father."

"No mother, wait! He will leave in a while."

When Bashir left, Maria opened the door and barged into the room like a
defiant wind and yelled, "So my daughter and I are not even as worthy as your
coachman?!"

"Lower your voice", Abu Dawood said while promptly closing the outside door.

"I knew that you would get upset after listening to the conversation. But for
God's sake, be patient for a while. I will reassure you in a bit. Come on.
Let's go to your room. It is not safe to talk here. It will be dangerous for
all of us if anyone hears us."

"For God's sake, send us to Castile. I don't know what your attitude will be
towards us once we are in Granada. I won't be surprised if you sold us to a
merchant."

Abu Dawood quickly stepped forward, shut her mouth with his hands, dragged her
into her room and after quickly closing the door said, "Angela! Close these
windows. We will get into a lot of trouble if someone was to listen to our
conversation." Then, addressing Maria, he said, "For God's sake, be quiet for
a while. I will reassure you in a bit."

This commotion had awoken Rabia and while lying and keeping her eyes closed,
she began listening to their conversation.

Once Angela had closed the windows, Abu Dawood forced Maria onto the bed and
said, "Stupid woman! I am dreaming of making you the Queen of Granada and you
are planning to destroy us. Wait! Let me call the coachman here. Since you
don't trust me, maybe he can address your concerns."

Maria regretfully said, "But why did you insult us in front of them?"

Abu Dawood said, "Maria, listen carefully. I am sending the coachman on a very
important mission and if that mission is successful, I might change my mind to
go to Granada. In Ferdinand's sight, this success will not be any less than
capturing Granada and when I will go there and tell him that you helped me in
making this mission a success, then, I'm sure that your value, in the eyes of
Queen Isabella, will be above all the women of Castile."

Maria mellowed down a little more and asked, "And what kind of success are you
expecting from here?"

Abu Dawood replied, "You know that Ferdinand considers the Frontier Falcon to
be more threatening than Abul Hassan."

"So, you..."

"Yes, if the people in Castile were to know that the Frontier Falcon is
staying in this insecure fort instead of his mountains and forests, then,
they would immediately attack and that's why I'm sending the coachman. Let me
call him for reassurance."

"No, I don't need his reassurance. But they have obliged us with a lot of favors."

Abu Dawood said, "I'm sure in good time, we will also be able to return the
obligation. When, like us, they will be at our mercy, then, I will be able to
ask for the forgiveness of their lives."

Rabia's heart was throbbing but she neither had the courage to open her eyes or talk.

Angela said, "Father! They have saved our lives. They deal with us honorably.
Even if they were our bitter enemies, they would still deserve a good
treatment and that physician who comes to see Rabia day and night, inspite of
being Frontier Falcon's comrade, is an angel. Will you simply forget all his
favors?"

Abu Dawood replied, "There's something you should know about him. Ferdinand
would give away half his wealth for his friendship. I am sure he would go to
Ferdinand as a prisoner. He would have handcuffs of gold and Ferdinand would
ask his Prime Minister or the Lord Bishop to empty their chairs for this
honorable prisoner. He had once saved the life of the Crown Prince of Castile.
The governors of Cordova and Seville consider him their benefactor. He is
wasting his precious time with these miscreants. His real place is not in the
forest but in Castile's royal court. And as for his favors, I will take him
there despite his opposition. I'm also sure that with his intercession, he
will also be able to seek forgiveness for all of Badr Bin Mughira's past
mistakes from the Queen and King."

Angela's fear turned into joy. So far, she thought that her temporary interest
in Bashir would end once she left this place. And this accident that became a
cause for their meeting would someday become a beautiful thought of the past.
One Bashir's first sight, she had felt strange and unfamiliar heartbeats and
even after being able to talk to him freely she felt that there was an
insurmountable wall between them. In these conditions, Bashir's was merely a
temporary focus of Angela's dabbling glances. Angela's situation was no
different from that traveler who would rest for a while under a tree and be
amused by the twittering bird that sat on its branches. But despite being
impressed by its enchanting songs, would not even think of making it his
travelling companion.

But this latest conversation with Abu Dawood had opened up a new avenue for
her to ponder upon. It kindled several lamps in the obscurity of the future in
front of her. Today, for the first time, she was thinking that her meeting
with Bashir was not an incident that would not have an outcome. For a few
moments she went far away from this room. She was seeing Bashir Bin Hassan in
the royal court of Castile. She was preaching Christianity to him in her home.
Then, the Lord Bishop of Castile was baptizing him and they were exchanging
vows in front of the Holy Mary in a church and the priest was sprinkling holy
water on them.

This imaginary happiness was not merely a pleasant breeze for Angela but a
storm that, within moments, swept her from one place to another.

But Rabia's condition was a lot different. The palace of her emotions were
being demolished. She was seeing a shackled Badr Bin Mughira in Ferdinand's
court. Lilies of her hopes were withering away. The bright sky of hopes were
falling one-by-one. She was being buried under the burden of hopelessness. She
was suffocating. She wanted to scream...but only if she could scream. If only
she could say something but she didn't have the courage to open her eyes.

Abu Dawood said, "Let me call in the coachman."

Maria replied, "I trust you. I am sorry that I caused you so much trouble."

"I want to make him understand a few things and this room is secure for such
things."

After a while, Abu Dawood brought the coachman along and after closing the
door said softly, "Rabia! Rabia!"

Receiving no reply from Rabia, he said, "It's good that Rabia is asleep.
Angela! Don't reveal anything to her." Then, after being silent for a while he
addressed the coachman saying, "Remember, if you want to become one of
Ferdinand's knights, you have to do this properly. A small error can ruin the
entire plan. Go straight to the Governor of the Border and tell him that I
have not given you anything in writing as a precautionary measure. I will try
to keep the Frontier Falcon here till Friday night. If he's here, then, the
flames would be lit in both the windows of this room. Our men will be able to
see this from far away. If the flame is lit only in one of the windows, then,
it means that he's not here and an attack would be in vain. Even if it's a
stormy night we'll try and make sure that they are able to analyze the
situation based on the flames in one or both the rooms. If the windows of both
are shut, it means that there is danger in advancing. Also tell them that if
they are not able to attack the fort before midnight, then our lives would be
in danger. And don't reveal your secret to anyone before crossing the border.
Maybe you have never seen a coachman becoming a king's knight but after the
success of this mission, you will certainly find a huge, empty seat in
Ferdinand's court for yourself."

The coachman said, "I'm merely a petty slave of yours. If my master becomes
the King of Granada, I would rather be a guard at his gate than become one of
Ferdinand's knights."

Abu Dawood replied, "This is what I have expected from you. If the star of my
destiny would shine then the first house of my loyalists that would illuminate
would be yours. You will not be a guard at the gate of my palace but an
adornment of my court. You will the jewel of my crown. Now go and rest. The
preparations for your journey would be done early in the morning. Make sure
you tell them that the number of troops guarding the fort never exceeds
fifty."

Once the coachman left, again about Abu Dawood closed all the doors and sat
talking until late to Angela and Maria. Considering themselves to be King,
Queen and Princess of Granada, these three discussed their future life of pomp
and luxury and other relevant issues. However, Rabia was hardly interested in
this. Abu Dawood's conversation with the coachman was enough to drive her
anguish to the last limit. She now knew that a cage was being prepared for the
Frontier Falcon. She wanted to breach this cage and want to put an end to this
danger. This was the first time she knew about her father's viciousness and
wickedness and intensely felt that she was all alone in this world. She
thought that although she knew and understood very little about his young
rebel of the border, he was the sort of person who would be closest to her.

Despite not knowing him much nor understanding much about him, she felt that
this young rebel of the border was one person whom she felt closest to.

Few hours earlier she thought that this rebel of the border was far away from
every danger of the world and she would get fearful at this thought. A fear
that a hiker feels while climbing the peak of an interesting but dangerous
mountain. For her, Badr Bin Mughira was a heart-yearning oasis, a volcanic
mountain and a grisly iceberg all at the same time. Imagining his intimacy was
as charming for her as much as being dangerous. But now after knowing about
her father's evil intentions, Badr Bin Mughira was that tree in whose branches
she had already built her nest. This tree was now facing a flood of events.
She wanted to save it from falling. She wanted to dig the hard earth with her
delicate hands and put soil into its roots.

Abu Dawood proceeded to his room and Rabia fell asleep after tossing and
turning a few times.
