
# Tareef Bin Malik



When Abu Abdullah got to know that his uncle had left Andercus for Africa he
sent a message of congratulations to Ferdinand in Malaga and ordered for a
celebration in Granada.

During the night Al-Hamra's pillars and walls shone in the light of lanterns.
A feast was arranged by Abu Abdullah in a spacious chamber of Al-Hamra for the
loyal chiefs and members of the sultanate. Dance and music began after food.
Rounds of wine followed and when this party was at its climax, Abu Abdullah,
intoxicated in wine got up and said, "Some of you used to say that I am
unfortunate. Noone call me unfortunate from today. I am the King of Granada.
Ferdinand's promises are true. All the territories of Granada will be returned
to me. Why are you quiet? Laugh, sing and drink wine till your heart's
content. I will make a river of wine for you in Al-Hamra. All of the grapes of
Alpujarra would be used to make wine. We had also ordered the people of the
city to celebrate but we have heard that some miscreants have put-off the
lights in the streets and markets. This is the work of those who have come
from out of Granada and are propagating that the Christians have been
extremely cruel to them. I say that this is a lie. Next time such people will
not be given permission to enter into the city. Any slogan against Ferdinand
the Great will not be tolerated. He is our benefactor. Whatever you see today
in Al-Hamra is because of him."

But the city's condition was quite contrary to Al-Hamra. The lights of the
streets and lanes that were lit in the evening by official notification were
extinguished forcibly by those protesting against Abu Abdullah. The entire
night protestors gathered in streets, lanes and intersections and raised
slogans against the traitors of the nation. Abu Abdullah's supporters in the
city who had illuminated their homes had their houses pelted with bricks. An
influential group of clergymen was with the protestors and the young students
did not hesitate to drag out and beat-up those namesake clergymen who
congregated to supplicate in their mosques for Abu Abdullah's long life. Like
the men, a group of female protestors too rallied around the city the whole
night and apart from the women of Granada, female refugees also participated
in this rally, whose tears had conveyed the tales of atrocities of the
Christians in Malaga and Beegha to the people of Granada.

Abu Abdullah celebrated for three days. For three days the walls of Al-Hamra
acted as a separator between the laughter of the pleasure-seeking officials of
the government and the sighs of the people of Granada. For three days, rounds
of Aragonian wine over-flowed in cups as tears of blood flowed from the eyes
of the people of Granada and on the fourth day Abu Abdullah was reading this
letter from Ferdinand:

"We have come to know that our people in Granada are not happy with you and the
rebels are gathering in the city.

To remove any possibility of a future war between Muslims and Christians, we
believe it is vital that you handover Granada to us. The only reply to this
letter that we would like to hear from you is that the gates of Granada will
not be closed for our army. In any other scenario we would be compelled to use
force. We will decide your future when we get to Granada. If you expect a
generous treatment from us, then, unconditional compliance is a must."

Like Abu Abdullah, the effect of intoxication also vanished from the members
of the sultanate. They glared at each other with eyes wide open. Cloud of
hopelessness was settling allover Al-Hamra.

Abu Abdullah looked at Ferdinand's emissary and said in a feeble voice,
"Emperor Ferdinand will have a reply from us within a couple of days."

Abu Abdullah's new minister was Tareef Bin Malik, who was the biggest chief of
the tribal Berbers. He stood up and replied, "Ferdinand certainly has some
misunderstanding about us and we are sure this misunderstanding will be
removed. If you deem appropriate, I am ready to go to him."

Another chief stood up and said, "Ferdinand has left only two options for us.
The first is that we comply with his commands and get ready to welcome these
savages into our homes whose main priority is to dishonor our sisters and
daughters. The second is that we prepare for a dignified death."

Yet another chief got up and said, "War is synonymous to death for us."

Suddenly, Abu Abdullah had a thought and said with a bit of optimism, "Tareef!
Go to Abu Dawood. He is the only person who can show us the correct path at
this time. He will certainly be able to remove any misunderstanding Ferdinand
has about us. Ferdinand has made him the ruler of Loja. Go to him
immediately."

After a while, Tareef was heading towards Loja.



Abu Dawood recognized Tareef Bin Malik as soon as he saw him but contrary to
Tareef's expectation of a warm welcome, Abu Dawood did not even stand up from
his chair for a handshake. He merely gestured towards an empty chair that was
in front of him.

Tareef sat on the chair and said reluctantly, "Abu Abdullah has sent me to
you."

Abu Dawood replied, "I know that you have come to me for advice."

"So...so you know that Ferdinand has broken his promise with us."

Abu Dawood replied, "In the capacity of a Governor I am not willing to hear
anything against my King and I cannot even advise Abu Abdullah not to comply
with the orders of his Emperor."

"But I came with the understanding that you are a Muslim. You are a well-wisher
of Granada and in the capacity of the Governor of Loja you too are a member of
the Government of Granada. This is our city. I have come here to ask what we
should do."

Abu Dawood replied, "The weak always has to comply unconditionally in front of
the powerful. My advice to Abu Abdullah is that he should leave himself at the
mercy of Ferdinand."

"But you had told Abu Abdullah several times in front of me that Ferdinand
would never deceive us. He is our well-wisher. He has no greed to expand his
kingdom. He would handover the entire Sultanate of Granada to Abu Abdullah
after defeating Al-Zeghel. What became of those promises? Regretfully, your
enthusiasm to become the Governor of Loja has made you forget that you are an
individual of the Muslim community and if Christian forces enter Granada then
our aftermath would be even worse that the people of Malaga."

Abu Dawood replied with the same indifference, "I had performed the duty of
being an emissary between Abu Abdullah and Ferdinand."

"No. You had tried to convince Abu Abdullah to have confidence in Ferdinand's
false promises."

Abu Dawood replied, "Like Abu Abdullah can't I too make an error? At that
moment, were you all not my supporters? If you want to be saved from
destruction, then wouldn't it be better that someone more far-sighted than Abu
Abdullah take the reins of the people of Granada? The only way to save
yourselves from the revenge of the Christians is that a leader from among you
should guarantee complete loyalty to them on behalf of the people of Granada."

Tareef said, "If the people of Granada request you for their leadership, would
you be willing to take-up this service?"

"When I feel that I can be of service to them, then I will come even without
being called."

"But I have heard that under your shadow, even the Muslims in Loja consider
themselves closer to death than to life."

"The reason for this is that they still have not accepted me as their leader
wholeheartedly and that is why I cannot talk to Ferdinand on their behalf with
full confidence."

Tareef got up and said, "So this means that unless the people of all the
cities of Granada do not take a petty spy of Ferdinand as their leader, till
such time, they cannot be saved."

Contrary to Tareef's expectation, Abu Dawood replied calmly, "At these times
emotional talks are of no avail. So I am Ferdinand's spy but you too have not
been negligent in serving him. Go ahead and ask yourself. Don't you feel that
the people of Granada would have been better off if you were in Abu Abdullah's
place?"

"No. I cannot betray Abu Abdullah."

"Very well! So be it but the reason for this is not that you consider Abu
Abdullah to be the best leader of Granada but the main reason is that to
become Prime Minister you need to make such a person to be the Sultan. If you
had the contentment of reaching to this position when leaders like Abul Hassan
and Al-Zeghel were present, then you would have never betrayed them and as
proof of my claim it is enough for me to say that the only reason you had a
person like Moosa murdered is that in his presence it would have been
impossible for you to get even an ordinary position. Otherwise, who does not
know that he could have become a great leader of Granada. My friend, we both
have our interests in front of us. To fulfill your interests, you became a
stooge for Abu Abdullah and to fulfill my interests I became a stooge for
Ferdinand and even now you are not afraid for the destruction of the people of
Granada. Your main fear is that if Abu Abdullah is overthrown then even your
ministership would be snatched away."

Tareef grinned sheepishly and said, "You are Satan."

For the first time a smile curved on Abu Dawood's face. "A small Satan is
acknowledging the greatness of a big Satan" And then he became serious and
said, "Tareef, you don't not have to worry. Your objective is the ministership
of Granada but for this if you think it is important for Abu Abdullah to be
the King, then, you're mistaken. So far I don't know who Ferdinand has
selected for the seat of Granada but when the time comes I will tell him that
for the post of minister, there is no person more suited than you. Instead of
taking support of a sinking ship, why don't you take the support of that
mariner on whose signals the ships sink and swim? You know that now if anyone
wants to be the King or Minister of Granada it is important to have the
approval of Ferdinand. I can't understand the person who does not regret
Moosa's murder but would be upset on handing over an idiot like Abu Abdullah
to Ferdinand?"

Tareef replied, "When I was a traitor, I didn't realize that the Christians
were deceivers and vicious to such a degree. Now if you believe that I can
ignore the treatment they have rendered to my people in Malaga, then it is
wrong."

"You are getting emotional again. If Al-Zaghairi had laid down his arms in
Malaga immediately then certainly the Christians would not have rendered that
treatment."

Tareef said, "Fine. I will leave now."

Abu Dawood stood up and while extending his hand for a handshake said,
"Goodbye!" But suddenly, a thought crossed Tareef's mind and his hand stopped
from extending. He said, "No. From today maybe our paths are different."

Abu Dawood said while calmly settling down in his chair, "As you wish. But I
know you will finally meet up with me after taking a long turn. If you don't
want to deceive yourself, then it would be better for you if you went to
Ferdinand instead of Abu Abdullah.

Tareef stopped as he reached the door, turned around and looked at Abu Dawood
for a second and exited.

Abu Dawood clapped his hands after pondering for a while. A servant entered
the room and waited for his orders with his head bowed down. Abu Dawood said,
"Go to the police chief and tell him that I need four active, wise and brave
men immediately."

The servant left and Abu Dawood picked up a pen and got busy in writing. After
a while four Christians who appeared to be army officers from their attire
entered the room. Abu Dawood turned his attention to them after revising his
writing. "The emissary of Granada is staying at our guest house and currently
he must be preparing to leave. Follow him until you know for sure whether he's
heading towards Granada or towards Malaga. If he heads towards Malaga, then
know that he's our Emperor's friend. In this case only one of you would have
go to Malaga to give my letter to the Great Emperor and if he heads towards
Granada then his existence is dangerous for us. In this situation it would be
your duty to stop him from going to Granada even at the expense of your lives.
He has only five men with him. Take two or three good archers along with you.
I want his companions to be aware of your presence only when an arrow is
pierced into his chest. Do not attack his comrades unless there is a
compulsion to do so. After that, one of you should go to Malaga and present my
letter to the Emperor and narrate rest of the events verbally. Now go. Even if
Tareef has left he must not have gone far."



After leaving Loja, Tareef did not talk to anyone of his companions for
several kilometers. During the night he stayed at a small inn of a settlement
along the way. The owner of the inn was a Moroccan Muslim. As soon as he got
off the horse, Tareef said, "Our horses need food and rest more than us. We
will leave in the wee hours of the night."

The owner of the inn said, "You look like a respectable man. Two Christian
officers are staying in the best room of the inn. If you do not have any
objection I can empty a room of my house for you. Your servants will find a
place at the inn."

Tareef said, "I only need to sleep."

The owner of the inn said, "I'm afraid you won't be able to sleep restfully at
the inn. Those soldiers will return shortly after drinking wine at a
Christian's house in the settlement and for the whole night neither will they
sleep nor will they let anyone else sleep. There is only a wall between my
house and this inn. Their noise would be heard there too but they won't break
down your door at night when they are drunk."

Tareef said, "Very well, I'm your guest."

After having food, Tareef intended to lie in bed but he heard some noise
coming from the direction of the inn.

After listening carefully, he heard screams of a woman. He called out to the
owner of the inn. The owner of the inn came into his room from the next room
and without waiting for Tareef's question said, "Looks like they have caught
another prey today."

"You mean they kidnap people's girls from the town?"

The owner of the inn said, "A victorious nation compels its slaves to comply
to such rights."

"And the people do not retaliate?"

"The population of Muslims is very little in this town and to save their own
house people are willing to silently watch houses of others being burned."

"Don't they have any self-esteem left?"

"It seems that you have come from a different land. Self-esteem is meaningless
for a nation whose Sultan is a coward and its nobles are traitors."

Raising his sword, Tareef said, "My friend! For a long time, I had lost my
way. Today you have shown me the way."

Tareef ran out of the house and entered the inn. The screams of the woman were
coming from the upper floors. Tareef's companions were standing in the veranda
in bewilderment.

"You cowards! What are you thinking?!" Saying this Tareef ran up the stairs.
The door of the room was at the end of the corridor but there was a window
from where light was emanating.

"Have mercy on me...leave me...let me go."

Tareef peeped through the window and couldn't bear the heart-breaking scene.
With all his strength he pushed and broke the door. Intoxicated in wine, the
soldiers left the woman and turned their attention towards him but within a
blink of an eye Tareef's sword had decapitated one soldier's head and had gone
through the other's belly. For a moment the shocked girl lay motionless on the
floor. Then she looked at her naked body and left the room screaming.
Simultaneously, Tareef's companions were coming up the stairs with their
swords. At their sight the girl gave a deafening scream and jumped from the
gallery. Tareef ran down the stairs. The owner of the inn was standing
downstairs. Tareef remove his robe and placed it on the girl's naked body. The
owner of the inn bent down and placing his hands on her pulse said, "She has
been liberated from the chains of life."

Tareef said to his companions, "Put the reins on the horses. We are going to
leave immediately." Then he turned his attention towards the owner of the inn
said, "If anyone asks who killed these thugs, tell them that the persecution
of a girl of his nation has made the treacherous minister of Granada into a
Muslim once again."

Later when these people were coming out, eight horsemen came and halted in
front of the inn. One of them moved his horse forward, looked at Tareef
carefully and said, "Where are you going at this time?"

Tareef replied in a bitter tone, "Who are you?"

"We are soldiers. We thought of staying at this inn for the night but it seems
that even you did not find a place here."

"There is a lot of place. In fact, we have just emptied a room."

Saying this Tareef prompted his horse forward. After covering a distance, one
of Tareef's companions who was relatively close to Tareef galloped his horse
close to Tareef's and said, "After what happened, do you think it would be
appropriate to go to Malaga?"

"Who asked you to go to Malaga?"

"You said that we might have to go to Malaga?"

"No. We are going to Granada."

After a while, Tareef said to his companion, "Hassan! You must have mused
several times that I am the biggest traitor of Granada."

Appearing worried Hassan said, "You are my master."

"No Hassan, I know. Your compulsions do not permit you to say how you really
feel. You had been compelled to support me even in the worst of conditions,
but say for instance that I choose the correct path today, then, what
difference would it make to you?"

Hassan replied reluctantly, "My master! There is a huge difference in walking
with a burdened conscience and a burden-free conscience."

Tareef said, "Hassan! The Christians are our worst enemies."

"My Master! If you don't take it as an affront, then I would say that we have
been our own enemy. If you accept someone as your killer, then you cannot
demand that he should not kill you in a certain way and our situation is such
that we have tied our hands and legs and stood in front of the enemy and we
have also given our dagger in his hand. Now it is his choice if he slaughters
us gradually or just slits our jugular vein quickly."

Tareef replied enthusiastically, "No, our daggers are still in our hands. We
will fight. If not a life of dignity, then the path for a death of dignity has
not been closed for us."

"May God give you courage. But I fear that Abu Abdullah will not support you."

"He is compelled to support us."

After a while, Hassan got startled and said, "Somebody is following us."

On Tareef's cue his companions stopped their horses. The sound of galloping
horses could be heard behind.

Hassan said, "They must be the same soldiers that we met at the entrance of
the inn." To save his life, the owner of the inn must have told them who the
killer of the two officers of the Christian army was and you too did not hide
your secret. They must be following us in pursuit."

Tareef said, "They have been following us for long. We saw them as we left
Loja. I have seen them two or three times along the way. All of you move away
and stand behind the trees."

With Tareef leading, his companions left the path and stood behind the dense
trees.

The horse riders passed by and Tareef and his companions came out of from
behind the trees and mounted their horses.



In the wee hours of the night, these people left the main road and were
passing through a sandy track in the murky light of the moon.

Tareef sat on his horse with his head bowed. His tension increased as he
approached the destination. He had passed the stage in which a person thinks
as to what he should do. His feet were shaky when he left Loja after meeting
Abu Dawood. He would sometimes think that he would go to Granada and tell Abu
Abdullah, "We have deceived ourselves. Now war was the only way out. The flood
whose dams we had broken ourselves was now heading towards our homes. When
Ferdinand's troops would enter Granada, neither will you remain a King nor I a
minister. He might not even give us the privilege of living like a normal
human being but are we capable of fighting the enemy? An enemy for whom we
have opened the gates of our strongest forts. He is aware all our weaknesses.
Now, we can't even threaten him."

Then he would think, "Could Ferdinand prove to be so treacherous? What if I go
to him and tell him that we have been ashamed in front of our people because
of you. We trusted you and fought with Abul Hassan and Al-Zeghel for you. We
were confident that we could live a life of peace under your shade. For the
sake of peace in Andalus, we gave most of the area of our Sultanate to you and
now you want to take Granada away from us too? You are the Emperor of Andalus.
This sort of default does not suit your stature. What will the world say? What
will the historians say? Can you deny that had we not supported you there was
no power in Andalus that could have stopped the floods of Abul Hassan's
victories? If anyone raised a voice against you, we did not hesitate in
strangling him. If anyone raised his head against you, we slaughtered him and
threw him at your feet. Is this the reward of our services that the gates of
Granada be opened for those wolves who have ripped the threads of humanity
apart in Malaga after all? What is our crime? No! No! There is no benefit of
such talk. Ferdinand doesn't need us now. Abul Hassan and Al-Zeghel are no
threat to him now. For him, now that nation has become harmless whose flags of
success fluttered for centuries in the fields of Andalus. Ferdinand took the
shade of rocks in the rain of arrows. Now the bows of those who fought against
him are broken and now he has no use for those rocks. Abu Abdullah, I and all
my companions were those rocks who Ferdinand used to make his bunkers that won
him the war. Now he feels that we are useless to him." Then again he thought,
"But like us, even Abu Dawood was a similar rock in his bunker and he has made
him the Governor of Loja." Tareef answered the question himself. "No, he still
considers him useful. Ferdinand wants to put his defeated enemy to death and
even in the capacity of a rock, Abu Dawood can be useful in sharpening his
sword. Ferdinand wants to spill every drop of blood of life from the veins of
his enemy and Abu Dawood can tell him precisely which vein to cut. Maybe a day
would arrive when Ferdinand might realize that like us he does not even need
Abu Dawood, but for now, he needs him. Abu Dawood has assured me that I can
make Ferdinand happy by betraying Abu Abdullah but this would be treachery.
Could it not be possible that the decision Ferdinand has taken against Abu
Abdullah is because of Abu Dawood's advice? And if Abu Dawood can betray Abu
Abdullah, can't he then betray me as well? I won't go to Malaga. I will go to
Granada but what can I do after getting to Granada? Moosa is in my custody. I
am willing to face the consequences after releasing him. I will fall at his
feet and say, "Moosa! The nation needs you but now what can even Moosa do?"

When this mental conflict would become unbearable for Tareef, he would turn
his attention towards his companions and strike a conversation with them.
Before going to the inn of the settlement he did not know where his
destination was. He would take a step towards Granada and the next towards
Malaga, but when he left the inn he had just one destination. The incident of
the tragic death of an innocent girl was the final jolt to awaken his drowsy
conscience. His shaky feet had stabilized. The shrilling screams of a helpless
girl of the nation had placed the Prime Minister in the ranks of those people
who were compelled to fight without the consequence of a win or loss. Tareef
hand just one option.

When the morning was about to break he halted his horse by a stream and said
to his companions, "It's time for prayer."

After performing ablution from the stream, Tareef and his companions stood
facing the Qibla and when Tareef raised his hands for supplication after
prayers, then, instead of words, tears flowed out from his eyes. Tareef hid
his face his hands. After much difficulty he uttered these words from his
mouth:

"My Lord! We have strayed far away from the life of dignity. Now maybe our
tears won't be able to wash away the darkness of our sins. We rebelled against
Your commands and rejected Your mercy and now when we are facing nothing but
humiliation and indignity in front of us we are asking You for a respectable
death. No! The word "respect" does not suit people like us. We don't even
deserve to imagine a respectful death. We merely want to be relieved from the
torment of our conscience. Every moment of life is far bitter than death. Now
our burden has become too much for your earth to bear."

This supplication that began with tears ended with tears as well. Tareef and
his companions mounted their horses once again.

After crossing the stream and passing through dense trees, the minaret of
Granada's mosque and the dome of Al-Hamra came in Tareef's sight. Pointing
towards the horizon he said, "Look! Granada! Our Granada! Hassan! This is our
last fort in Andalus. We will protect it. We should not be hopeless from the
Mercy of God. If a hundred thousand youth out of a million in Granada vow to
live, then who can erase them. Haven't a handful of frontier falcons not
taught a lesson to Ferdinand's cowardly army? Didn't a thousand of Tariq's
warriors shake the pillar's of Rodrick's supremacy? When we were in our
thousands we defeated the largest of armies and today our numbers are in
hundreds of thousands. Will we submit to the humiliation of Ferdinand's
slavery forever? Don't we possess those swords that our ancestors..."

Tareef couldn't complete his phrase. An arrow swooshed from the trees and got
pierced into Tareef's ribs. With a sound of "uff" Tareef ducked to a side but
instantly another arrow hit his back. Tareef's companions turned their reins
around but in the meanwhile a few more arrows came and another one of Tareef's
companions got injured and right after that the sound of galloping horses
could be heard from behind the trees.

Tareef proclaimed loudly, "Hassan! Don't go in their pursuit. I have a lot of
work to get done."

Tareef prompted his horse forward and his companions, who were biting their
lips in rage, followed him. After going a little further, Hassan brought his
horse close to Tareef and said, "Please stop the horse. Let me take out this
arrow."

"No. These moments of mine are very valuable. Now, don't waste time."

"You can't go very far in this condition. Atleast let me have a look at your
wounds." Saying this Hassan extended one hand and got a hold of the reins of
Tareef's horse and pulled the reins of his horse with the other.

While dismounting his horse Tareef said, "You are very stubborn, Hassan!" He
stood with his chest against the horse and holding the reins with both his
hands said, "Be quick."

Hassan quickly removed his turban and said to one of his companions, "Tear
this in two."

Two men dismounted their horses and tried to lend support to Tareef but he
lashed out saying, "I am fine. Hassan, be quick."

Hassan pulled and removed an arrow at once and threw it but Tareef fell
unconscious as he tried to remove the second one. After tying both the wounds,
Tareef's companions lay him on the ground. After a while, Tareef gained
consciousness, opened his eyes and after drinking a few drops of water tried
to get up but Hassan said, "It would not be advisable to travel on the horse
in this condition. Wouldn't it be better that we leave you in the nearby
settlement and get a surgeon from Granada?"

Tareef got up and said decisively, "I am living merely to perform my last duty."

Tareef mounted his horse but after about half a mile Hassan realized that it
had become difficult for him to sit on the saddle of the horse properly. He
would bend to one side at times or to the other. His grip on the reins of the
horse was loosening. Hassan took his horse closer and he put his hand around
Tareef's back and pulled him onto his horse.

While groaning Tareef said, "Take me to Moosa."



After passing through lush green gardens Hassan halted his horse at an iron
gate of the four walls of an old house. A black slave peeped out of the iron
bars of the gate.

Hassan said, "Open the gate. Be quick."

The black slave opened the gate as soon as he recognized Hassan and his
companions. Hassan entered into a wide field as soon as he passed the
gatehouse. In the meantime, a few slaves and servants gathered and on Hassan's
cue removed Tareef from the horse and took him into a room. Tareef was
unconscious. Hassan said to the servants, "Call Yaqoob."

A negro ran out and returned promptly and said, "He is coming."

A middle-aged yet well-built man entered the room. Seeing Tareef unconscious
on the bed he looked at Hassan with querying glances.

Hassan said, "Yaqoob, it is the master's order to release Moosa from captivity
immediately and present him here."

In a state of bewilderment and concern, Yaqoob first looked at Hassan and then
at his companions. His silent glances were protesting against the
unprecedented order.

Hassan said, "Yaqoob! Don't waste time. Be quick."

With a bit of audacity, Yaqoob said, "But master is unconscious and until he
does not order himself..."

Hassan thundered back at him, "I order you on master's behalf. Be quick."

"But he won't leave me alive."

"Lions don't raise their hands on foxes. Let's go. I will come with you."

Moments later, after passing through a narrow veranda, Hassan, Yaqoob and a
slave stopped at an iron gate of a cell that was on the other side of the
house. The Berber unlocked the door of the cell. On one side of a cell was a
narrow stone ladder that led downstairs. After coming down about twenty steps
these people stopped in front of an iron-bar gate. Yaqoob opened the door. It
was pitch dark inside. When Yaqoob turned an iron latch near the wall next to
the door, a small window opened up near the ceiling of the opposite wall and
foggy light entered the room. This room was empty and a man stood behind the
right side of another cell's narrow door's iron bars and looked towards those
who had created a commotion to his solitude. This was Moosa Bin Abi Ghassan.
Even a withered face of this awesome and formidable personality was enough to
shake the hearts of onlookers.

Hassan took a step forward and said, "We have come to take you out of
captivity on the orders of Tareef Bin Malik."

Moosa kept looking at Hassan silently. Hassan repeated, "He is injured and his
last wish is that you give him a chance to fall at your feet. We have brought
him here in a state of unconsciousness. We know that you won't forgive him but
he has repented and maybe after a while his matter would be in front of his
Lord. All of us are your criminals and if you want to punish us then you won't
face any resistance from our side."

On Hassan's signal, Yaqoob opened the door fearfully. Moosa came out of the
cell and stood silently for a moment and then spoke, "I fail to understand how
this punishment descended upon Tareef when he was willing to commit every sin
for Abu Abdullah."

Hassan replied, "Tareef has been wounded by Ferdinand's men. You might
consider him forgivable once you're aware of all the events but at the moment
the flame of his life is flickering. He is waiting for you. He wants to say
something to you."

Moosa said, "Let's go."



Tareef groaned in pain and said, "Quick, take me to Moosa."

One of his companions said, "Hassan has gone to fetch Moosa. They must be
coming here shortly."

Tareef opened his eyes, looked around and while sitting up on the bed said, "I
don't want to see him in this condition. Take me in front of his cell. I'm not
worthy enough that he come to me. Be quick."

Tareef hung his feet down from the bed. Two men assisted him. When they took
him out the door, a negro slave said, "They are coming."

Tareef said, "Leave me. I don't need support." The servants complied to his
orders against their wishes. Tareef took a few steps. He could see Moosa on
the other side of the veranda.

He began to blackout. He stumbled forward and stood embracing a pillar of the
veranda. Moosa came and stopped close to him and stared at him in
bewilderment. With shivering lips Tareef said in a voice drenched in pain,
"Moosa! Your criminal is knocking at the gates of death but before
that...before that..."

Tareef left the support of the pillar, took a few steps forward and
involuntarily fell at Moosa's feet. For a second, Moosa stood numb without any
motion. Then he tried to move back but his feet were clutched in Tareef's
arms. Even in a state of unconsciousness this grip was quite strong. Suddenly
Moosa realized that his feet were becoming wet. Tareef was spending away his
saved tears at his feet. No, these were not tears. Moosa was heart-broken. He
had forgotten all the ills of the past. He bent down and picked Tareef up.
Instead of tears, a stream of blood was flowing out of his mouth. Moosa picked
him up and took him inside. He placed him on the bed and tried to revive him
but the fatigued traveler had breathed his last after arriving to his final
destination.

Moosa supplicated, "Surely we belong to  and to Him shall we return" and
despite trying hard to hold back tears, they flowed over. These tears fell on
Tareef's face. Moosa moved his head from his lap onto the pillow and said in a
husky voice, "Tareef! You were one of us."
