
# The Spider's Web

Badr bin Mughira had encamped at a distance of twenty miles from Granada. One
evening an officer of his army informed him that a Berber had come with some
important message. Badr bin Mughira called him inside his tent immediately.
Mansour bin Ahmed was sitting with Badr bin Mughira.

The Berber entered the tent, shook hands with both of them, one after the
other, and while settling down on a chair in front of them said, "I have come
from Granada."

"Go on", Badr bin Mughira said.

After a little hesitation the Berber chief said, "I would like to say
something to you in private."

Badr bin Mughira looked towards Bashir bin Hassan, who he got up and left the tent.

The newcomer pulled out a letter from his pocket, stood up and while
forwarding it to Badr bin Mughira said, "I have been sent by Abu Dawood. He
has said that a reply from your side can save Hispania from destruction."

Badr bin Mughira opened the letter and started reading it, while the Berber
chief was studying, with extreme interest, the effects of its writings on
Badr's face. After reading the letter Badr bin Mughira looked at the Berber
chief for a second and returned back to reading it with even more
concentration. This was the content of the letter:

<!-- LETTER QUOTE -->

"From a person who has become an invalid organ for his people due to his blunder.

To that mujahid whose immense courage and high ambitions are the only hope for
Andalusian Muslims.

You must have understood who I am. Despite such a big revolution in Granada,
my silence was more because of some compulsion than for some broader interest.
Even now I am not sure whether my letter will make it to you. But if I have
not made a mistake in trusting the messenger, and you receive this letter and
some positive results are derived from it, then, I would consider it an
expiation for my past mistakes. But if, due to my emissary's betrayal or some
other reason, my letter gets in the hands of Granada's nation sellers, then I
would be of those whose best ambitions get hidden in the veils of a death of
anonymity. Anyways, after me if Rabia is not a target of Abu Abdullah's evil
desires, then, she would be able to narrate all the events to you.

After Abu Abdullah's revolt I wish I had never come to Granada. It is my
misfortune that instead of learning about life's lessons in the company of a
falcon, I undertook the responsibility of tutoring a parrot that was confined
to a golden cage. I tried to make him appreciate the pleasure of flying in
azure skies but I too have been locked into the cage of Al-Hamra. If only it
was possible for me to get Abu Abdullah to a decent level of civility.

I am surprised how unaware I have been with the real situation and not only me
– Abu Musa, Al-Zeghel and Sultan Abul Hassan – were unaware of these
conspiracies that were been hatched within the four walls of Al-Hamra. The
real ruler of Granada is not Abu Abdullah but it is those chiefs and elders
who have already received the price of Granada from Ferdinand before these
events. When Abu Abdullah announced the revolt, Abu Musa was the only person
in Al-Hamra who was loyal to Abul Hassan and now he lies in some dark cell.

In such circumstances, what am I to do? The spell of the organized power of
the hypocrites could not even be broken by Abu Musa's mesmerizing oration.
And a slight interference from my part was not tolerated. I had only two
options. One, to raise the slogan of treachery in front of Abu Abdullah and a
packed audience and in return spend the rest of my life in a dingy cell of a
prison. Two, to be a silent spectator and wait till circumstances compel Abu
Abdullah to turn towards what I have to say. I chose the second route. Think
of this as my prudence or take it as my cowardice but because of it the doors
of Al-Hamra are still open for me. So far I have not been able to persuade Abu
Abdullah to take any right step but a few more wrong moves have been averted
because of my strategies. In the past few days, I am noticing a new
development in Abu Abdullah's behavior and the reason for this change is not
that he has doubts about the future of Andalus but it is because he sees a
bleak future of himself. The dangers that he anticipated far from Granada are
now being viewed in the vicinity of the four walls of Granada. He is perturbed
by the city's isolation and its citizens' anxiety. If he had any hope from an
immediate relief by Ferdinand's forces, he would not have been so disturbed.
What Ferdinand has replied to his message is that he needs to prepare himself
before the decisive battle. His anxiety can be gauged by the fact that
initially I had to try very hard to meet him but now he calls for me, at
times, even in the middle of the night, to pacify him and at times he turns up
at my residence. Day before yesterday Abu Abdullah called me at midnight and
expressed concern over Granada's situation. I aggravated his tension by adding
a few words and said whether it would be possible to reach a compromise
between him and the Sultan. Abu Abdullah abruptly said, "I wish this was
possible. Even if my father forgives me, my uncle would never clear his heart
regarding me." He expressed this concern even about you that you are thirsty
for his blood. I asked him what his response would be if the Sultan sent a
message of peace. He said, "In such circumstances, it would be insane to think
that the Sultan would try to seek peace with me. After the Frontier Falcon's
successes, he might be thinking of me as a harmless enemy and would prefer
more to have a rope noose around my neck than extending a hand of
reconciliation."

I said, "If I have not misjudged the Frontier Falcon, his interest in the
affairs of Granada is not because of the Sultan's friendship or an enmity with
you. The reason is that he wants to unite and organize the Muslims against the
Christians. If he learns about your capabilities, then it's possible that he
might compel the Sultan to abdicate in your favor."

Abu Abdullah took his time to ponder. Finally, he said anxiously, "But how
will I be sure that the Frontier Falcon will side with me and that my father
would not insist on making Al-Zeghel or my stepbrother his successor."

I answered by saying that the biggest objective he has in life is to topple
the Christian government and for this purpose he would try to stop the civil
war in Granada by changing any of his decisions.

These conversations with Abu Abdullah has instilled this hope in him that
before attacking Granada you will first try to seek a compromise. He was ready
to send a delegation to you for a compromise but I feared that all those
elements who might have their lives endangered in case a settlement was
reached might oppose Abu Abdullah's decisions and replace him with some other
stupid person on the throne.

Apart from this, there could also be a possibility that they might send a
message to Ferdinand about the dangers arising from the father and son
compromise and convince him to intervene immediately. Therefore, to keep them
unaware, I have convinced Abu Abdullah that if he takes the initiative of
sending a peace delegation, it is possible that they might see this as a
weakness on his part. I also told him that it is also possible that some of
the chiefs among your allies might leave you and join up with them before a
compromise is reached just to save themselves from punishment. Or maybe even
arrest you and hand you over to them. Therefore, it is of immediate importance
that you not reveal your intentions to anyone and wait for a peace emissary
from their side.

And now Abu Abdullah is waiting for the peace emissary. And my role is to
ensure that he is not disappointed but I feel that the chiefs on Ferdinand's
payroll would not permit any peace emissary coming from your side to even come
close to the gates of Al-Hamra and none of Abu Abdullah's messenger can come
to you openly and no negotiations can be successful that is in the knowledge
of these nation sellers.

Therefore, I am putting you through a huge trial. I was thinking if you could
enter into Al-Hamra using a secret path, then, I could arrange for you to meet
Abu Abdullah. If my plan works out and you are able to bypass the guards and
enter Al-Hamra then think that you have conquered Granada. Abu Abdullah would
need to be convinced that his life is not in danger. Then, each gesture of
yours would act as a command for him. This meeting would take place in a room
of my own residence. Say, for example, Abu Abdullah is not convinced by your
talk and he has ulterior motives, even then he would be in a closed room with
the Frontier Falcon. You would be able to have him sign every order that is
necessary to take over Al-Hamra and to implement the orders. There would be a
few mujāhidīn in the palace whom I consider to be Abul Hassan's loyalists.
Those serving as spies to the nation sellers could be called into the room one
after the other for whom I will also prepare four strong, well-built negro
executioners.

After capturing Al-Hamra, Granada would be in your hands. Abu Abdullah would
dance to your tunes. The chiefs of the nation sellers would be called into the
palace in small groups and the ones that cannot be reformed would be handed
over to the executioners. After this, on Abu Abdullah's behalf, the army would
be invited to gather at the gates of Al-Hamra and Abu Musa would be removed
from prison and placed in front of them to deliver a speech. You can't imagine
how much love the soldiers still have for Musa. Then, Abu Abdullah, whom I
personally believe is unpardonable, would be at your mercy.

Now all I need to tell you is what suggestion I have come up with regarding
how you are going to enter the Al-Hamra. My residence is at the corner of
Al-Hamra towards the river. If you are a good swimmer, you can cross the river
and reach near the wall without the help of a boat. Next to the wall you will
find a large tree that is bent towards the river so much so that its branches
sink into the water. Towards the right of this tree, at a distance of a walk
of about twenty steps, you will see a window of my house, at an elevation of
about forty handbreadths. At night, this window would be illuminating.
Standing below this window, if you grope on the wall, then you will find a
thin rope. When you pull this rope, I will know about your arrival and lower
down a rope-ladder. You will reach my room with ease. In case of danger, you
will find a piece of paper tied to the end of the rope. Remove this piece of
paper and go back and follow the instructions that are in it.

I have chosen Wednesday night for this. If you cannot come this Wednesday,
then come the following Wednesday night but this Wednesday is better because
the night is going to be dark and evidence shows that it will remain cloudy
for a few more days.

If I am not in front of the window for your reception, then think that I am
sitting with Abu Abdullah in some other room. However, in my absence Rabia
will guide you. On the night of Wednesday, Abu Abdullah would be invited over
to my place. Don't be surprised at this. Ever since Abu Abdullah has seen
Rabia, he comes over by making different excuses. Yesterday, he made the
stupidity of covertly sending a marriage proposal to Rabia. Rabia was ready to
pullout the hair of the maid servant who brought the message of a marriage
proposal from Abu Abdullah but the issue was calmed down with Angela's
interference. In front of me, Abu Abdullah expresses his desire discreetly. In
such circumstances, I don't think I will be able to stay in Al-Hamra for long.

I am calling you to a very dangerous mission and I can't every completely
convince you of its success. After you reach near Al-Hamra, every step you
take would be a very narrow and dark path between life and death, therefore,
before following my instructions, do reconsider very thoughtfully. It could be
that you might enter Al-Hamra using a secret door during the night and by
morning all doors of Granada might open up for your comrades. What could also
happen is that I too, along with you, be thrown into a dark nook where it
would be fated for us never to come out and with us the future of Granada
would also get buried. If my emissary has delivered this long communiqué to
you then it is important that until this task is not completed, you should not
send him to Granada and let your men keep him with them as an honored guest. I
trust the nobility of his intentions but precaution is necessary. Ferdinand's
spies would be ready to weigh the person in gold who would help facilitate
your capture."

"Abu Dawood"

<!-- END OF LETTER QUOTE -->

After reading the letter again and being oblivious of the emissary's presence,
Badr bin Mughira got up and started strolling in the tent. Words of the letter
were circulating in his mind with different interpretations. He was picturing
the four walls of Al-Hamra. After entering it on a dark night from a window,
he stood facing Rabia, who welcomed him with a smile drenched in tears of
love.

"Rabia! My Rabia!" He felt dainty and beautiful heartbeats within his heart.
"He fears the evil desires of Abu Abdullah." His blood started boiling, "She
was ready to pullout the hair of the maid servant who brought the message of a
marriage proposal from Abu Abdullah." He was smiling.

But within moments, these lovely feelings were suppressed by bigger plans. He
began contemplating on all aspects of his mission. Abu Abdullah's revolt
despite Abu Dawood's presence raised a lot of doubts in his heart regarding
Abu Dawood which were finally removed after reading this letter. "I am calling
you to a very dangerous mission and I can't every completely convince you of
its success. After you reach near Al-Hamra, every step you take would be a
very narrow and dark path between life and death, therefore, before following
my instruction, do reconsider very thoughtfully." These words started echoing
in his ears.

"I will definitely go." This was his final decision.

It was raining heavily during the night. Abu Dawood was anxiously walking in
that room of the house whose window opened towards the river. A black slave
sat on one corner of the room. A bell was hanging from a wall of the room.
Feeling hopeless Abu Dawood sat on a chair. "He might not come today", he said
while looking towards the black slave.

The slave replied, "It is not easy crossing the river in such a storm."

Both silently stared at each other for a while.

Suddenly there was movement in the rope attached to the bell on the wall and
it started ringing.

Abu Dawood said, "He has arrived."

The slave quickly got up and lowered down the rope ladder and after a while,
feeling some weight on the other end of the ladder, said, "He is climbing up."
After a few moments had elapsed he said, "I think he has climbed more than
halfway and if we cut the rope now, then, it will save us the trouble of
killing him in a different manner."

"Speak softly. He is smarter than us. Instead of coming up himself first, he
must have sent someone else."

The slave said in a subdued voice, "However, when he comes closer, you will be
able to recognize him by the sound of his voice and my sword will wait for a
cue from you."

Abu Dawood placed a finger on his own lips and directed the slave to remain
silent. He then extended his neck out of the window to take a look. Lightning
struck and he sighted a masked man at a distance of a few meters away,
climbing up the ladder.

He softly said, "Thank God that you came."

The masked man gave no reply to this. After a gap, Abu Dawood reiterated and
said, "Are you alone or is there someone else below with you?"

The masked man took two or three final steps and entered the window and taking
sighs of relief said, "I was delayed finding this part of the palace in the
dark. The water in the river was flowing very fast."

Abu Dawood said, "You have come from the cold. Come in to the next room and
change your clothes."

Removing his mask Badr bin Mughira said, "I am used to roaming in this weather."

Abu Dawood said, "I was sure that you would come."

"You had called me towards an obligation."

"Please come. It is not appropriate to stand here."

Badr bin Mughira entered into a spacious room that was furnished with
extremely precious carpets and chairs. While asking Badr bin Mughira to sit on
one of the chairs, Abu Dawood said, "Abu Abdullah is in one of the rooms
upstairs, playing chess with a servant of mine. You reached after a very long
time, but fortunately the love of chess has kept him from leaving to his
residence. That servant is not reliable but he does have this quality that he
can keep Abu Abdullah engaged in chess until morning. The palace lodge has
been informed that he is busy playing chess over here. So therefore, even if
he is here till morning no one will come to call him. You wait here while I go
and find an excuse to get rid of that servant and then I will call you
upstairs. And you know what you have to do next. In the next room, those four
black slaves are ready to be called when needed. I will leave now. Sit
comfortably. There is no danger here."

Abu Dawood left room and Badr bin Mughira took to observing the room.
Suddenly, he heard footsteps from a direction. He turned around and looked,
and abruptly stood up. Rabia was standing in front of him, staring at him
dumbfounded.

"Rabia", he said involuntarily.

And she replied in a shocked voice, "You...why did you come here...?"

Badr bin Mughira could not comprehend her concern. Smiling, he said, "You did
not like my coming here?"

She intuitively stepped forward and said, "Every night I would wish for such a
dream but if only this was a dream but this is an interpretation of a dream
gone wrong – a disastrous interpretation – Please leave this place for God's
sake."

Despite being upset Badr bin Mughira forced a smile on his face and said,
"There is no danger here. I think you are unaware that I came here on your
father's invitation."

"I know. Angela has told me everything. You have become victim to a dangerous
conspiracy. There is still time. For God's sake, hurry up!"

Badr bin Mughira said, "Isn't Abu Abdullah in the upper chamber at this time?"

"All this is a lie. I have heard everything standing by the door of the
adjacent room. Even if the door was not locked, I would have put my life at
stake to inform you about the danger."

"But I can't believe that your father..."

"You don't know my father more than me. Don't you remember, when we were
staying with you at the frontier fort I had said that I saw a nightmare that
the Christians have attacked you?"

"Yes, I remember."

"That was not my dream. Actually, I had learned about my father's plot and now
Angela has informed me about this conspiracy."

Bringing a remorseful smile to his face Badr bin Mughira said, "If this is a
conspiracy then it would be so thorough that escaping now would be in vain.
Not only would have the rope ladder vanished but his men would now be around
the four walls below. But Rabia, if destiny would want me to deliver a task,
then, no one can harm me."

"He is thirsty for your blood", Rabia said while bringing tears into her eyes.

"Dead nations are not resurrected without the blood of martyrs. But Rabia,
there is little time left now. I have a lot to say to you."

Footsteps of a few men could be heard at a distance. Rabia involuntarily
stepped forward, grabbed his arm and said while sobbing, "There is no time to
say too much. Please just say, 'Rabia you are mine and I do not hate you.' No!
No! Do not separate me. Let him see. Maybe he is bringing Abu Abdullah along
with him. Let Abu Abdullah see for whom I have rejected the crown of the Queen
of Granada. Badr! My Badr! My master. Had this time not come, then maybe I
would never have had the courage in my entire life to say that I love you.
Living without you was beyond my imagination but no one can stop me from dying
for you."

"Rabia! You are more dearer to me than my life. For God's sake leave. They are
coming. What will he say if he finds you here?"

"He will say that I am in love with you and I will say who is it in Andalus,
apart from Badr bin Mughira, whose sword has been raised in face of the
excesses committed against the helpless and oppressed girls of Hispania. Who
is the one whose glances have the chastity of angels?"

The door of the room opened and Abu Dawood and Abu Abdullah along with eight
or ten men holding lances entered inside. Finding Rabia there, Abu Dawood
appeared a little worried and said, "Rabia! Why are you standing here? Go to
your room."

Rabia took a step forward and looking at her father said in a trembling voice
full of rage, "Tell me what punishment have you suggested for him? We both are
in the same boat. If he is a criminal for having noble aspirations for
Granada, then I too am a criminal."

Abu Dawood grinned and said, "Sometimes Rabia gets into a rage because of her
mental illness. Later she doesn't remember a thing once she's back into her
senses."

Rabia wanted to say something but Abu Dawood got hold of her hand and pulled
her away to the other room.

For a while Abu Abdullah, in his perplexity, kept staring at Badr bin Mughira.
Finally, he signaled to the soldiers who, pointing their lances, advanced
forward towards him in a formation of a semi circle. Badr bin Mughira quickly
removed his sword out and throwing it towards Abu Abdullah said, "You didn't
have to bring so many men to arrest just one man."

On Abu Abdullah's cue a soldier picked up the sword and feeling at ease, he
moved forward and said, "I didn't know that you would display such idiotic
bravery to enter the Al-Hamra."

Badr bin Mughira replid, "In the Al-Hamra Palace if wisdom is considered
treachery, betrayal and cowardice, then I should not be sorry at my
stupidity."

Abu Abdullah was at loss of words and said, "I think this place is not
appropriate to discuss such matters. A lot of people who are as high in
stature as you are waiting for you in a chamber of the palace. For your own
safety I am sure you will comply with the orders of my soldiers."

Abu Abdullah left the room and the soldiers closed-in on Badr bin Mughira. A
soldier moved forward with handcuffs and Badr bin Mughira extended his arms
without any resistance.

Badr bin Mughira entered the Dar Al-Aswad under the strict supervision of the
soldiers after passing through a number of corridors in the light of the
chandeliers. Observing a guard of shining swords at every step he thought that
the idea of not escaping was a correct one.

"Let me go. Let me go", Rabia said while trying to free herself from Abu
Dawood's iron grip.

While pushing her onto the bed, Abu Dawood said, "Stupid girl. If you have no
respect for yourself then at least have a little consideration for my white
hair. You have degraded me so much that I can't even face the lowest of people
in Andalus."

Trying to balance herself properly while sitting, Rabia looked at her father,
then got up and helplessly fell at his feet and yelled, "For God's sake,
please save his life. If not for me then at least for Granada. If not for your
own daughter, then at least for the thousands of oppressed daughters of
Andalus. I promise I will never utter his name...or else I will burn in fire.
I will jump off from the highest tower of Al-Hamra." Although Abu Dawood
possessed a heart of stone, he still had a spark of compassion that was still
burning and despite his determination he could not crush this spark. All the
chords of his heart that produced the beautiful tunes of humanity were broken.
However, one chord was intact. That chord that could be moved by Rabia's
tears. For the whole world he was a vicious man. A ruthless man who could send
thousands of beings to the gallows without hesitation just for fulfilling a
trivial wish of his. But he was a father to Rabia. Despite all his vices he
was not able to crush the burning spark of humanity from his heart that was
lit by Rabia's innocent smiles.

Abu Dawood raised his hands again to push Rabia but his fatherly love got
entangled in those golden chords that were impossible for him to break.
Rabia's tears fell on his feet. He tried to move back but she had firmly
gripped his feet. He bent down and put his hands on her head, and then he got
a hold of her arms and tried to raise her up.

The father and daughter stood facing each other. For a moment Abu Dawood felt
the futility of his desires in the face of Rabia's flowing tears. He said
remorsefully, "Rabia! I wish I had known the level of degree your madness has
reached for him. I will try to save him but..."

Rabia pleaded, "Father! You can do everything. His death would be a prelude to
the destruction of Granada."

"I do not care about Granada. I merely want to pay the price of your tears."
Saying this Abu Dawood entered the other room. He opened a cupboard, and took
out a bottle and putting a few drops in a cup, came and stood near Rabia and
said, "Here, drink this and lie down. You are not feeling well."

With shivering hands Rabia took the cup, looked at her father and said, "If
you have prescribed a similar poison for him too, then, I am gladly willing to
have that too. I wish you had accepted my death as a recompense for your
injured feelings and would not have deprived the Muslims of Andalus of their
last support."

Bringing the cup close to her lips, Rabia looked at her father. Suddenly,
Angela appeared from the next room and yelled and said, "Rabia! For God's sake
don't drink it." She ran to grab the cup from Rabia's hand but Rabia quickly
gulped it and threw the cup on the floor. Abu Dawood had a meaningful smile on
his face. Angela stared at her stepsister dumbfounded while Rabia stared back
sporting a victorious look.

"Rabia! What have you done?" Saying this Angela embraced her and said to her
father in a trembling voice, "Please get me a cup of this poison too. Both of
us were born in the house of the same snake. Our end should also be the same."

"Both of you have gone mad. I have given her a sedating medicine. Until I do
not come up with a positive solution, it would be harmful for her to remain
conscious." Saying this Abu Dawood held Rabia by the arms and placed her on
the bed and went out of the room. He had not even taken ten steps when Angela
ran and got hold of him and said, "Father! Do save him. Rabia can't live
without him."

Abu Dawood remorsefully said, "Angela, I am going to gather the thorns that I
have scattered with my own hands I am afraid I might injure my own hands
instead of accomplishing the goal. Keep comforting Rabia that he will be saved
until she falls asleep."

"But all I want to know is whether you will use all your energies to save him?"

Abu Dawood said annoyingly, "Go Angela! Stop bothering me. You're Rabia sister
but I am her father."

Angela returned back to Rabia's room. She kept saying to herself, "Alas! If
only you were a father."

She sat on Rabia's bed enfolding her. Rabia's eyes were showing signs of
drowsiness. While yawning she placed her head on Angela's lap and said,
"Angela! If there was any possibility of saving him then I won't have been
given this sedative."

Angela consoled her and said, "I am sure they would think a thousand times
before making a decision concerning the Frontier Falcon. Abu Abdullah would be
certain that his soldiers would shake Granada to the core."

"If Abu Abdullah had this realization then he wouldn't have revolted against
his father. He knows very well that they would stand the worst torture and
still not lay a finger on Granada."

"But the people of Granada can die for the Frontier Falcon's name. They would
not stand even the slightest hardship."

Rabia said, "You're so naïve. The people cannot see past the high walls of
Al-Hamra. The secrets of Al-Hamra would be buried in Al-Hamra."

"So I am certain for the sake of their lives, the nobles would oppose Abu
Abdullah's evil intentions against the Frontier Falcon."

"No, but there is a greater possibility that Abu Abdullah, fearing for his own
life, would comply to the wishes of those nation sellers, who have sold off
Granada to Ferdinand. The only hurdle for Ferdinand in attacking Granada is
the fear of the Frontier Falcon. After his assassination the traitors would be
at ease, knowing that Ferdinand's forces would come to rescue them from the
revenge of his comrades."

Angela said hopelessly, "Rabia, father would certainly save him but should his
efforts fail, what should we do?"

Rabia opened her eyes, looked towards her, then suddenly got up and said,
"Angela, I am still not hopeless. I believe in that entity that saved Ibrahim
(AS) from the fire. Is it possible for us to reach the female chamber? I have
a strong feeling that the Queen and Abu Abdullah's wife will help us. I know
that they respect him. I am amazed as to why I didn't think of this before."

Angela said, "The palace's pass gate would be closed at this time but because
Abu Abdullah is in his court, the guards and eunuchs would be awake waiting
for him. My necklace would be enough to open any closed doors and the news of
the Frontier Falcon being in Al-Hamra is not so trivial that the Queen and Abu
Abdullah's wife would get upset of being awakened at an odd hour. Let's go!
And also thank God that mother is snoring in her deep sleep."

Rabia got out of bed and took a few steps with the help of Angela but darkness
spread in front of her eyes. She was about to fall but Angela got hold of her
and made her lie on the bed and said, "The medicine has taken its effect on
you. I will leave now. Pray for my success."

Rabia, in her state of drowsiness, removed hernecklace and handing it over
Angela, she said, "Take this too."
