
# One Crore

(1)

After dismissing the Prime Minister, Abu Abdullah entered the harem in a very
perturbed condition. As he approached his wife's chamber a bondmaid
respectfully offered her salutations and said, "The Great Queen and Your
Majesty's mother are in the tower of Al-Hamra's big gate. They had received
the information that Your Majesty would be busy for a long time. They have
gone there just now."

Abu Abdullah stood there in bewilderment for a while and then said, "They
could have heard the protesters from here too." Abu Abdullah's words had
helplessness more than bitterness in them.

The bondmaid said, "If your Majesty so commands, should they be informed of
your arrival?"

Abu Abdullah replied, "No, we will go there ourself."

Abu Abdullah stepped out of the harem with his head bowed down in deep
thought. The guards at the door followed behind him as a matter of routine but
he turned around and said while looking at them, "We would like to be left
alone."

The guards returned. Abu Abdullah took gradual step on the marble floor and
proceeded towards the big gate.

He began to hear the slogans of the protesters outside even more clearly. He
stopped at the steps of the tower and stood there for a long time in
bewilderment. He wanted to apprise his wife about his life's most important
and bitter decision and so far he himself was not sure to what degree he would
be able to fulfill the decision. There were very few moments of his life that
he had spent out of the four walls of Al-Hamra. This was his world, this was
his heaven and now circumstances were asking him to bid farewell to this
heaven. He said to himself, "Will it be possible for me to leave Al-Hamra
while I'm living? Is it possible that the gates of Al-Hamra would reopen for
me once they are closed? I would have to seek Ferdinand's help for this
purpose. There is no other way apart from this and he would be happy to help
me. But now i would have to take the help of Ferdinand's sword not only
against my uncle and father but also against my rebellious subjects. But after
these defeats will he be willing to fight a war solely for my sake whose
consequences can be dangerous for him as well? Won't his final defeat be a
exemplary destruction for me and my comrades? And even if he wins, will he
consider me in having the rights to all of the rewards of his victory?"

He was replying to the answers to those queries himself. "Abu Abdullah! You
are a cursed star on the sky of Granada. Reopening the closed gates of Granada
for yourself at the hands of Ferdinand would mean to crush the entire
deterrent force of the Muslims. To have piles of Muslims corpses at the gates
of Al-Hamra. These people who are currently protesting won't respect the
throne that you would gain with Ferdinand's help.

Corpses of Muslims agonizing under that throne would always call you a
traitor. But now the only issue in front of me is to save my own life. I
cannot stay here for more a day or two. My uncle will certainly attack
Granada. These agitating people will support him and then he will make my
paralyzed father a puppet and rule over Granada himself. To achieve this
objective isn't it possible that he could make peace with Ferdinand? Will
Ferdinand refuse his hand of friendship just for my sake? Wouldn't he
surrender me to Al-Zeghel for the sake of his interest? Have I not sacrificed
even my father for the sake of my wishes? What would be my worth in front of
Ferdinand after my defeat at Malaga by a meagre force?"

To divert such disturbing thoughts, he used to take the aid of Abu Dawood's
magical eloquence. With Abu Dawood present, he never felt the need to think
deeply. So far the blunders he had committed were mostly because Abu Dawood
never gave him the chance to think about their ugly consequences. Whenever he
saw him a bit serious, he would immediately say that the Crown of Andalus
should not entertain such thoughts. "Kings have to go through these phases. A
ruler's heart should be very strong." It was this very Abu Dawood that hoisted
a sail to the boat of Abu Abdullah's peaceful life and pushed it into a sea of
mishaps. And it was this very Abu Dawood who consoled him in every whirlpool
and now this boat was near the dangerous rock which Abu Dawood had always kept
oblivious from the eyes of his student.

Gradually, Abu Abdullah reached the top of the tower after passing through a
circuitous flight of stairs. Besides his mother and wife there were a few
other ladies who were standing and peeking down from the gallery of the tower.
Due to the noise of the protestors noone heard the sound of Abu Abdullah's
footsteps. For a while, he stood silently under the dome. Below, a huge crowd
of people gathered in the vast ground facing the gate was shouting, "Abu
Abdullah is a traitor!" "Abu Abdullah is a nation seller!". "Hang Abu
Abdullah!" "Burn Al-Hamra!"

Some people had torches in their hands and some were raising their lances and
swords. Abu Abdullah asked himself, "Will I be able to rule over these people
with Ferdinand's help?" "No! No!", he replied himself. "For my sake Ferdinand
might ransack Granada and have piles of the bodies of these people at every
corner of Granada. But it's impossible for him to compel them to obey me. Has
Granada destined to perish at my hands?" He shivered at this thought. He was
saying to himself, "Abu Abdullah! There is only one way out for you now and
that is to resign from this crown and throne forever. You should disappear
from the land of Andalus. But where will you go? To Ferdinand? No! Going there
would mean that you have resolved to destroy Granada at his hands. He will
always use you for his objectives. You won't be able to refuse to comply to
any of his wishes and his greatest wish is to cleanse Andalus from the
presence of the Muslims. You want to take the help of a wolf to guard the
sheep. You will not go to Ferdinand. Until today you were his instrument and
maybe that Abu Dawood was also his instrument and maybe you made the mistake
of dancing to the tune of this person who was a mere servant of Ferdinand. You
relied on him but when the time came, he left you and fled. You were a toy in
his hands. He instigated you against your father and you revolted. He advised
you to arrest Abu Moosa and you sent your best friend to prison. He advised
you to kill the Frontier Falcon and you agreed to deprive the people of
Andalus from their best friend. He handed a flame to you and you were prepared
to burn down your hay stacks. He made you commit such crimes that you would
never have thought of committing in your wildest thoughts. And when the time
came, he left you in front of the court of the people and fled."

For the first time Abu Abdullah's heart raged with Abu Dawood's hatred. He
imagined him sitting next to Ferdinand and making fun of him. He must be
saying, "Abul Hassan's son was far more stupid than what you and I had
imagined. I came back because there was not anything more that I could have
used him for."

"Selfish, double-crosser, accursed – if only my hands could reach his neck."
Engrossed in his thoughts, Abu Abdullah said these words so loudly that the
ladies in the gallery, who were unaware of his presence, were startled.

After a brief moment of perplexity, Abu Abdullah's mother came forward and
stood at a distance of a few steps away from him. For a while, the mother and
son looked at each other in the blurry light of the moon.

Abu Abdullah said in a feeble voice, "With your permission, can I dismiss this
assembly? I have something to say to you."

Abu Abdullah's mother turned and looked at the ladies, who understood her cue
and went downstairs. Abu Abdullah's wife also followed them but Abu Abdullah
said, "You too stay back, my dear."

She stopped and stood on one side of the dome. In the blurry moonlight, the
threesome – the mother, son and wife – were looking at each other in silence
while the slogans of the mob below were gradually increasing. "Abu Abdullah is
a traitor! Abu Abdullah is an enemy of Islam!" But compared to these words,
the silent glances of his wife and mother were far more unbearable for Abu
Abdullah.

Finding this silence unbearable, Abu Abdullah said, "The Traitor of Granada
stands in front of his mother and wife and asks if they too have suggested a
punishment for him just like the people."

Abu Abdullah's mother replied, "The Traitor of Granada's mother was only
thinking that she was the one who always breastfed her son and was also
thinking if she could only go in front of the mob of people and tell them that
he is a son of that mother whose brother and husband can swear by her
integrity."

Had the dome of the tower broken and fallen on his head, then too, maybe Abu
Abdullah would not have felt its burden. He looked at his mother with extreme
helplessly and said, "Mother! Today I present my case in your court. Pronounce
a punishment for me. Ask me to jump off this tower. Ask me to strangle myself
with my own hands."

The ambitious mother was not moved by her son's words. She said, "You are only
saying this because mothers can only hear pleas of mercy and cannot fulfill
the duties of justice. Abu Abdullah, the tree that you watered was thorny.
Alas! If only your mother was able to free you from its thorns. You are not
regretting your blunder. You're only distraught by its consequences. You want
me to console you but today your mother cannot find the words to console you
with." Saying this much Abu Abdullah's mother's voice sank and tears started
to gather in her eyes.

A tearful Abu Abdullah said, "Mother! There is no other way out for me. I will
leave from here by tomorrow and then nooone will see my face. Now I want to
ask my wife, "Aisha, tell me. Will you support me?"

Aisha remained silent for a moment, took a step forward and said, "You want me
to take refuge with our enemy but I would prefer being buried in Granada's
graveyard than live in Ferdinand's palace."

A sorrowful grin appeared on Abu Abdullah's lips and he turned his face the
other way to hide his tears. Below, the slogans stopped and now someone's
speech could be heard. Gradually, Abu Abdullah advanced towards the gallery
and bowed and look below. A tall youth standing between a group of people with
torches was making a speech. The people were sitting down in their places as
he gestured with his hand for them to do so. On observing carefully Abu
Abdullah recognized him. This was the same Governor of the Border who had
returned dejected a while ago from his court.

(2)

Governor of the Border was making a speech loudly:

The Abdullah you are chanting against is dead. He died the day he revolted
against his father and seized the crown and throne. I have seen his corpse.
Your slogans can't breathe life into him. It is useless whipping a dead body.
If only you would have opened your eyes when some of your chiefs had put this
corpse on the throne. Today, those Christians, for whom Abu Abdullah attacked
Malaga to please, are ravaging our border settlements. And you feel that Abu
Abdullah is insensitive but you did not feel his insensitivity when he
revolted against his father. You silently let an incompetent person grab the
throne of Granada. Abu Abdullah had associated his future with the enemy of
our people but let me tell you that you too are also an equal partner with him
in this great national sin. Because of your insensitivity and criminal
negligence, the government of Granada is in the hands of someone who is merely
a toy in Ferdinand's hands. Had you let Abu Abdullah know that you are alive
and that you would not close your eyes to your future, then surely, he would
not have dared to commit those blunders. But unfortunately, you have gathered
here to wail Abu Abdullah's insensitivity whereas your insensitivity is such
that the Christian perpetrators are destroying our border settlements and mass
murdering our women, children and the elderly. Thousands of homes have been
burned and several women have had their honor looted. I have come to you with
their pleas and ask you what reply should I take from you to them? Should I go
back and tell your helpless sisters that at the moment the protectors of your
honor are performing their religious obligation of cursing Abu Abdullah at the
gates of Al-Hamra? I don't stop you from doing so but had I free time at my
hands maybe I too would have raised slogans louder than you. But now it is not
the time for slogans. It is a time to act."

"My friends! A leader of a nation is a reflection of its people's disposition.
If you say that Abu Abdullah is insensitive, then what will you call a people
who have recognized him as their leader. Abu Abdullah is a coward who fears
the Christians immensely but isn't it correct that you too were fearful of
them until the warriors of the border and Al-Zeghel's mujahideen proved to you
that metal of the Muslims can cut any metal even today. You too, like Abu
Abdullah, were afraid of the Christians and before this, until Abul Hassan
dragged you into the battlefield by force, you were content living a life of
humiliation as vassals to the Christians."

"Remember! When the historians of the future write that Abu Abdullah was an
inept and a coward individual, then they will certainly write that there was a
large group of mean humans among Abu Abdullah's people who betrayed their
sincere, brave and wise ruler and had recognized his incompetent and coward
son as their leader. My friends! Abu Abdullah is a punishment for your deeds.
Abu Abdullah is a toy in the hands of your elders who consider the shackles of
Ferdinand's slavery their ornaments."

"Abu Abdullah is like a cancer in your body and cancer is always produced in a
body whose blood has become filthy. A tree that lacks resistance is taken over
by creepers of the forest. Until you don't let virtuous blood enter your
bodies such cancers will keep reappearing in your bodies."

"Remember! If you desire to live and if you know how to pay the price of your
dignity and liberty, then the chronicles of Abu Abdullah's life will end up as
an individual incident. Historians will write that a dissolute and
ill-intentioned prince had tried to sell his nation to its enemy but his fate
was no more than humiliation. But if you cannot pay the price of your freedom
then the historians of the future will write that those people were
characterless themselves and the outcome was what happens to a characterless
nation. The biggest flaw of such perishing nations is that they hide the
bitter facts in empty slogans. They place the entire burden of their social
responsibilities on an inept individual. Reflect and analyze a bit. You
believe it is easier to curse Abu Abdullah than to come face-to-face with the
enemy. You believe that it is much easier to break the gate of Al-Hamra than
to break the gates of the enemy's forts. You have not gathered here because
you had to. No! But you have gathered here because it's much easier to stand
here and make noise than to endure the difficulties of war. And even Abu
Abdullah knows that your vigor will whiter away after a few slogans and you
will return to your homes. He knows that you are not that flood that could
drown everything like garbage in its path. He also understands quite well that
your example is like the water in a pond. If you throw a stone in it, it will
cause ripples but after a while there will be deafening silence."

"I am not saying that you should not raise slogans against Abu Abdullah but
also take notice that your homes are on fire."

"The honor of your sisters and daughters is being looted and they are inquiring
if you are the sons of that nation which rose in the name of safeguarding
humanity? Whether you are that dignified nation whose swords were raised to
cut the hands of oppression? Your mothers want to know where their brave sons
are. Your sisters want to know, where their proud brothers were when the hands
of abuse were being raised upon their honor. Your elders want to know what
became of the protectors of the honor of their white beards."

"Should I go back with the reply that the guardians of their respect, freedom
and dignity are busy raising slogans against your incompetent ruler and they
do not have the time to turn their attention to you? Why are you silent? Say
something! Reply!"

A youth, overwhelmed by emotions, came forward near the orator and said
loudly, "Lead us to the battlefield. None of us is so dishonorable that they
would not be ready to support you." The rest followed suit. Within moments,
cries of support resonated from everywhere, "We all are ready! We all are
ready! We will avenge the enemy!"

The Governor of the Border's name was Abu Mohsin. Before today he had never
realized that his tongue possessed such capabilities. Seeing the people's
fervor, he raised his hands and started looking towards the sky. The orator
who had enchanted the crowd stood quietly for a while. His eyes were being
filled with tears of gratitude. His lips were shivering. Trying desperately,
all he could utter is, "O Allah! Grant my people victory!"

After a while Abu Mohsin gathered himself. He addressed the people and said,
"Those of you who are armed should stand in lines. Those who are without arms
should immediately get their weapons and come here. Currently, I will give
preference to the youth. The older ones will be called when the need arises.
Don't waste time. We have to leave immediately."

(3)

Later in the afternoon, five thousand armed volunteers stood in lines in front
of Al-Hamra and Abu Mohsin, mounted on his horse, was inspecting them. Above
the gate, Abu Abdullah, his wife and mother were standing on the tower and
watching the entire events as they were happening. Abu Abdullah's expression
portrayed a sad and hurtful picture. At the culmination of Abu Mohsin's speech
when his mother said, "Son, you must be tired. Go and rest." Abu Abdullah
could bear it anymore. He pleaded to his mother, "Mother! Please forgive me
and tell me what I should do?"

The brave mother turned towards her daughter-in-law instead of her son and
said, "Aisha, take off your bangles and present them to your husband. You are
the Queen of Granada. The Queen takes care of the Sultanate in the absence of
the Sultan. Open the gate of Al-Hamra and tell your people that my husband's
mother was stingy in feeding her milk to her son and his father too did not
teach him manly games but the Queen of Granada will support you in the valley
of arrows."

Aisha looked at her husband and then addressed her mother-in-law and said,
"Mother! I can't present the bangles to my husband but I would certainly
take-up the task if he presents me his sword."

Abu Abdullah had lost his patience. He said in a loud voice, "Aisha! For God's
sake, be quiet."

Abu Abdullah's mother said, "Yes Aisha! My son is very sensitive. Don't bother
him."

Abu Abdullah gave a perturbed look towards his mother and Aisha and without
saying a word, moved quickly towards the stairs. The mother and
daughter-in-law silently stared at each other until the sound of footsteps
were heard. After a while Aisha said, "Mother! If I actually have your
permission, I am ready to join the ranks of these mujahideen."

Abu Abdullah's mother said, "Daughter! After all this talk, my heart testifies
that Abu Abdullah won't let us down but if nature has written nothing but
disgrace for us then I will stand by you. Pray that Abu Abdullah comes to the
straight path after straying away from it."

After conversing for a while, the mother-in-law and daughter-in-law stood in
the gallery watching the formation of line after line of the mujahideen
standing in front of the gate. After inspecting the lines of volunteers, Abu
Mohsin stopped his horse in front of the gate of the palace and after
pondering for a while he said loudly:

"Mujahids! A few days ago I thought that we had reached where nations cannot
rise again but the glorious victory by Al-Zeghel and the mujahideen of the
border has changed my pessimism into optimism. A few moments ago when I was
standing before you, I didn't know what to say. But I knew that it was
important for me to say something and God knows what all I have said to you. I
admit that I am not good at the art of speech but your enthusiasm is proof to
the fact that you are alive and before departing I want to send a message
behind the iron gate of Al-Hamra to Abu Abdullah, who is asleep, that my
people are alive and you cannot enslave them at the hands of Ferdinand. You
are that unfortunate being who left his proud people and associated your
future with a mean enemy. Abu Abdullah! Your people are extremely generous.
Even now if you come to the straight path, they are willing to forgive the
past blunders. Come forward before all the doors of forgiveness close upon
you. Seek forgiveness from your people or else remember that you won't be able
to sleep peacefully for long in your palace that has been built by spending
the blood and bones of the youth. Do not sell the dignity and liberty of your
nation for the sake of your fake prestige. By God, no one can give the respect
that your own people can give. And if a people disgrace you, no one can uplift
you. People of Granada! Be a witness that we are leaving after knocking on the
iron gate of Abu Abdullah's palace."

Abu Mohsin wanted to say more but suddenly the iron gate of Al-Hamra's opened
and a few soldiers holding flames appeared. Behind them was a platoon of foot
soldiers followed by twenty horsemen. At the end, a horse rider appeared on a
white horse. He sported a white turban over his head and held that royal
banner of Granada. The rest of the horsemen that came out of the fort stood
flanked on both his sides. He came out of the gate and halted his horse. He
hesitated for a bit but then decisively kicked his horse forward towards Abu
Mohsin. This was Abu Abdullah! He said, "Abu Mohsin! Whatever you have said
about me is correct besides one thing. No ruler can rest peacefully behind
closed iron gates of his palace. I am present in front of the court of the
people. I do not appeal for mercy from the people but I do request a chance to
rectify my mistakes. You are the commander of this army. If you do not have an
objection, then I would like to be part of this group of volunteers. From
today, I am not a claimant to the throne of Granada. I will gladly accept
whatever punishment my uncle and father would pronounce on their return to
Granada.

For a moment, deafening silence prevailed on the gathering and then they
started whispering to each other. An awestruck Abu Mohsin was staring at Abu
Abdullah. Abu Abdullah said in a feeble voice, "Abu Mohsin! I know my crime is
unforgiveable. I am standing in front of the court of the people. Tell the
people to rip me apart. I won't plead the people for mercy but if you take me
along, then maybe, a few drops of my blood would wash away my wrong doings."

Abu Mohsin looked at the gathering, then turned his attention to Abu Abdullah
and said, "Your people are washing away your wrong doing by their tears of
gratitude."

Later on, five thousand soldiers were leaving from the western gate of the
city. Abu Abdullah and Abu Mohsin were all the way in the front. This army
offered Fajr prayers a few distance away from the city. Before leaving for the
second time, Abu Mohsin took Abu Abdullah aside and said, "I heard that Abu
Moosa is in your custody. If this is true, then there is no better person than
him to lead this army. If you have not yet thought of this, then, we have
still not come that far."

Abu Abdullah appeared very perturbed. He looked at Abu Mohsin and said, "Abu
Moosa is not in Al-Hamra and maybe I won't be able to answer any question
about him until we return from the battle...anyway, rest assured that Abu
Moosa is alive and when the time comes I will appear in front of him and say,
'Abu Moosa! Your criminal stands in front of you. Pronounce a punishment for
me.' And I'm sure by that time the list of my deed won't be as dark. At the
moment, even if he was not far away from me, I won't have the courage to face
him. I want to face him when I'm drenched in my blood and my face is blemished
with wounds and when all I could have mustered to say is, 'Abu Moosa! Your
criminal is going in front of a grand court. Will you not forgive his sins?'"

More than Abu Abdullah's words, Abu Mohsin was more impressed with his voice.
After pondering a while with his bowed down, Abu Abdullah looked at Abu Mohsin
and said, "You can understand the condition of my heart but if these people
ask me regarding Abu Moosa, then I'm afraid no statement of mine would be able
to satisfy them."

Abu Mohsin said, "Rest assured! At the moment all they know is that you are
with them. They don't want to think beyond that."

(4)

After Al-Zeghel's glorious victories he encamped in Malaga, reorganized his
troops anew and before advancing towards Granada sent a message to his nephew
Abu Abdullah, saying, "The door of repentance has not yet closed for you. Now
you must have been convinced that the hopes you had pinned on the Christians
cannot be fulfilled. We want to enter Granada with open gates but if you try
to be an obstacle then rest assured that the iron gates of Al-Hamra won't be
able to stop our path."

Al-Zeghel's emissary returned with the news that preparations were underway to
welcome them in Granada and Abu Abdullah had taken-off for an offensive
against the attackers of the borders. The emissary presented a letter from Abu
Abdullah's wife to Al-Zeghel and said, "The Great Queen has sent this letter
for the Great Sultan."

Al-Zeghel asked a few questions to the emissary, got up and headed straight to
Abul Hassan. The aging Sultan was spending his last moments of illness in his
bed. He had become blind. Hearing the unexpected news about his son, he
quickly got up. "Is this true? Is this possible?" he kept enquiring from his
brother again and again. "No! No! Call the emissary! I can't believe it."

Al-Zeghel said, "The Queen has dispatched this letter."

Abul Hassan said impatiently, "What has the Queen written. Read it out to me."
Al-Zeghel opened and read the letter. The meaning of the brief letter's
contents was as follows:

"My Master! My motherhood had not become pessimistic of Abu Abdullah and I
thought it vital to stay back in Al-Hamra. God gave the honor of accepting my
supplications at a time when I was surrounded with pessimism from all sides.
Abu Abdullah has left to face the enemy and if my motherhood doesn't fail me,
then, the purpose of this is solely to rectify his faults and nothing more.
Granada seeks you impatiently. If you cannot come immediately then send
Al-Zeghel. I'm afraid, apart from the warriors, even those people have left
with Abu Abdullah who were the reason we had to witness such times. The group
of these hypocrites will try to deceive Abu Abdullah until the very end.
Therefore, it is important to secure Granada before Abu Abdullah's return."

The next morning Abu Abdullah ordered his army to make preparations to leave.
After defeating the Christians, Badr Bin Mughira and his warriors had reached
the habitat of the falcons to keep the Christians away from the northern and
eastern borders. Bashir Bin Hassan had to stay back in Malaga for treating
Abul Hassan.

Despite his illness, Abul Hassan insisted on going to Granada. Al-Zeghel was
compelled to arrange a coach for his journey. Malaga's security was handed
over to Al-Zeghari.

Al-Zeghel's army entered Granada hoisting the flags of victory and success.
Flower wreaths were laid in front of Al-Zeghel's horse from the gate of the
city until the gate of Al-Hamra. Traveling in a slow pacing coach because of
his illness, Abul Hassan was still far away from Granada. But nonetheless,
besides shouting "Long live Al-Zeghel", the people also raised the slogan of
"Long live Sultan Abul Hassan!"

Another reason for the people's jubilation was that they had heard the news of
Abu Abdullah's glorious victories at the north-western border. The people
bringing the news from the battlefield to Granada had already told them that
Abu Abdullah had ventured into the enemy's territories and taken over some
forts after cleansing them from the border.

Al-Zeghel was sure that after the latest defeat Ferdinand's army would not be
able to make a mass movement without a long preparation. Therefore, he sent a
message to Abu Abdullah that he would come to his aid in a few days after
reorganizing the army anew. He asked him to encamp at a secure position
instead of advancing further into enemy territory and keep the enemy engaged
in minor skirmishes. The generous uncle also wrote to his nephew, "You have
expiated for your past mistakes and on your return you wouldn't find your
uncle and father any less generous than the people of Granada. Abu Moosa is
untraceable. We thought he would be with you but the people coming from the
front do not confirm this notion of ours. Where is he? The people of Granada
are very concerned for him."

(5)

After four days Granada was a scene of mourning. At dawn the people of Granada
received the painful news of Abu Abdullah's defeat and his eventual capture at
the hands of the enemy and by dusk a lot of details had been gathered by them.

With the fear of Al-Zeghel's arrival several chiefs, who were traitors, and
their comrades had already left with Abu Abdullah. When the rest of the
traitors too saw that the change in them had a positive effect on the people,
they too left Granada and went to Abu Abdullah.

These traitors wanted to a way to go to Ferdinand along with Abu Abdullah.
However, when they saw that the victories had an unprecedented change in Abu
Abdullah's personality, they hatched a conspiracy. One evening Abu Abdullah
had captured one of Ferdinand's forts. Two of his army's spies who were
associated with the traitors came to Abu Abdullah one after the other. One of
them informed him that a thousand troops belonging to the Christians were
heading towards the fort from the west. The other informed him that he had
seen a group two thousand Christian troops in the north and they too were
heading towards this fort. On receiving this news, Abu Abdullah called a
meeting immediately. With one voice the hypocrites said that they should not
give those people a chance to siege the fort. They opined that maybe their
army could advance and cut the supply route and in a day or two a larger army
would arrive and attack the fort.

Abu Mohsin rejected the idea to come out of the fort at night and attack the
enemy. He said, "Even if the enemy surrounds us, even then we can fight the
enemy from inside the fort for at least three weeks. In the meantime, the
reinforcements will arrive from Granada." But the traitors played on Abu
Abdullah's emotions and he ordered the army to get ready as soon as it was
night. The army was divided army into two. One part headed towards the west
under Abu Mohsin's leadership. And the other half moved towards the north
under Abu Abdullah's leadership. Majority of the traitors accompanied Abu
Abdullah.

With the aid of his spies, Abu Mohsin scanned about twenty kilometers of the
area westwards but the enemy could be found nowhere. Out of frustration he
started cursing the spies. Late afternoon, he turned the direction of his
weary horse towards the fort. In the morning, when Abu Mohsin was 4 kilometers
away from the fort, he saw a group of soldiers that had left with Abu Abdullah
during the night.

Abu Mohsin suddenly got a realization. He ordered the army to halt while he
galloped and advanced forward. When he reached near the group, a youth who had
blood stains on his helmet said without waiting for Abu Mohsin to enquire, "We
lost. It was a conspiracy. The traitors in our army outnumbered us. The spy
took us to an area where we were in the range of the enemy's arrows from all
sides and as soon as the hypocrites heard the slogans of the enemy, they told
Abu Abdullah that we have been surrounded. They said it was useless to fight.
When we refused to lay down our arms, they parted and stood aside. When the
enemy came out and ambushed us, they stood silently for a while but then
joined the enemy against us. Within no time eight thousand of our young men
were killed and there was no other option for us but to flee."

Abu Mohsin said, "And Abu Abdullah...?"

The youth replied, "He was with us during the fighting. A few men did see him
fall-off the horse. I believe he has been arrested. This was a conspiracy. I
wish we knew that we had such a large number of hypocrites who had joined up
with us."

Abu Mohsin said, "Even we were betrayed. Wait! Let me ask that spy."

Abu Mohsin returned back to the army and after looking here and there, he
enquired, "Where did that spy go?"

After looking around and after enquiring from each other the soldiers replied,
"Noone has seen him after the morning prayers."

Abu Mohsin replied dejectedly, "We have no other option but to head towards
our border." The news about the army's defeat and Abu Abdullah's disappearance
came as a blowing wind to the flickering flame of Abul Hassan's life. Once
again gloomy clouds loomed over Granada. The next day a sympathizer commented
at Abul Hassan's funeral, "Granada's sky has witnessed the funerals of several
kings and emperors but thousands of aspirations of Granada's future will sleep
in the grave of this mujahid."

After these events the war between the crescent and cross became cold for a
while in Andalus. In Rabi Al-Thani 890, Ferdinand invaded the province of
Malaga with a thundering force. His advancement was so sudden that Al-Zeghel
was not able to use his defense optimally. However, the Christians incurred
severe losses during their attempt to capture the forts of Baqwaan and Ronda
and they did not have the courage to move forward. Ferdinand's army attacked
the strategic fort of Mashinal at the border while retreating but they did not
success. Al-Zeghel attacked the enemy after repelling them and captured a lot
their goods and supplies.

Al-Zeghel realized that unless and until he does not enter Ferdinand's
territory and gives him a decisive defeat, the Christian incursions will not
cease but time was needed to prepare for a large scale war. The Frontier
Falcon's guard was on the south-east and north-western borders and he was
completely satisfied with this arrangement. In the south, an experienced
general like Al-Zaghairi was protecting Malaga. To utilize all the resources
for a large scale operation, Al-Zeghel had to be in the center. So, he
selected Abu Mohsin for the protection of the north-western border and he
reached Granada and got busy with the preparations.

(6)

Abu Abdullah reached Castile in the capacity of a prisoner. He was sure that
Ferdinand would pronounce the severest punishment for him but when the guards
brought him in front of the palace, Ferdinand, his Crown Prince and the nobles
of the kingdom stood at its gate. Ferdinand took a few steps forward and
extended his hand towards Abu Abdullah. In a state of confusion, Abu Abdullah
gave his hand in Ferdinand's.

Ferdinand looked towards his nobles and said, "What are you looking at? Honor
the King of Granada. He is our guest." The nobles bowed their heads to honor
Abu Abdullah.

With his hand in Abu Abdullah's armpit, Ferdinand entered into the palace.
Queen Isabella was standing in the middle of a few ladies in front of the door
of the meeting room. Ferdinand came close to her and said, "Queen! This is
that son of mine whom you had desired to see for such a long time. Until now
Abu Abdullah's face shows that he still considers himself our prisoner. Please
convince him that he is our guest whom we had longed to see."

Queen Isabella said, "I hope our soldiers did not hurt him along the way?"

Ferdinand replied, "We had issued orders that our friend should be treated
extremely well but if we find out that he has not been treated well along the
way then we will give them the severest punishment."

The nobles stood at a distance from the door and Ferdinand, Isabella, the
Crown Prince entered the room with Abu Abdullah. When all of these four sat
down on chairs placed in a semi-circle, Ferdinand said, "All of your comrades
have been allocated rooms in the royal guest house and we have selected the
best rooms of our palace for you."

Abu Abdullah said impatiently, "Maybe this type of humor does not suit the
stature of Ferdinand. I am ready to hear the order of my punishment."

Ferdinand said, "We do not retreat our hand of friendship once we have
extended it and we also know that whatever you did was out of compulsion.
Believe me that the attack on your territory was in violation of our orders.
They became desperate after their defeat and you must have thought that we
have broken our agreement with you. In such circumstances your fight with them
but rather the attack on our territory with the feeling of vengeance was also
right. If we have a regret it is only that because of a few stupid
individuals' grievous deeds, an ally whom we consider our son had become upset
with us."

Abu Abdullah was gaping at his host with wide eyes. Ferdinand said, "You still
do not believe what we have said? Maybe there is someone who could convince
you."

Ferdinand turned his attention to the Crown Prince, "Prince! Order someone to
call Abu Dawood!"

"Abu Dawood?" Abu Abdullah said in amazement.

Ferdinand replied, "Yes, he has come to us and he has this request that we
should take some immediate steps to return your Sultanate to you but now a
long preparation is required for this purpose."

Abu Abdullah already had several doubts about Abu Dawood but a weak person
always considers a strong person his last hope. Abu Abdullah had chosen Abu
Dawood to be his boat's navigator. After his disappearance, he got impressed
with Abu Mohsin's speech and once more he stood at a new crossroad of his
life. Despite having this feeling that all of his life's bitterness were
created by Abu Dawood, Abu Abdullah was still positive that he would be
mentally relieved as soon as he conversed with Abu Dawood. Ferdinand's smiles
had rekindled those dangerous designs in Abu Abdullah that he had left behind
forever before departing from Granada. He was reluctant to become Ferdinand's
agent but at the same time he felt that someday Ferdinand's smiles would once
again push him to the path that he had forsaken. Abu Dawood's voice would bury
the voice of his conscience. In summary, the dormant emotions of hypocrisy
were reawakening once again in the weak individual and he needed the support
of a major hypocrite to sing a lullaby to his conscience. Abu Abdullah said to
himself, "I will tell this dishonest person that you have dishonored me, you
made me a traitor of my own people. I was stupid but now my eyes have opened
up. No one can fool me now. Don't push me to the path of destruction. I don't
need the throne of Granada. But no, maybe I won't be able to wage war against
my own fate. Maybe the stars of my destiny might take me to Granada against my
wishes and I would be compelled to become Ferdinand's tool. No, No, I will
tell Abu Dawood have mercy on me for God's sake. Don't show me the wrong path.
I don't want to enlist my name in the group of nation seller. But Ferdinand
had said that he wants to see me as a sovereign leader of my people. This is a
lie. I will tell Abu Dawood not to try to justify Ferdinand's lie in front of
me but it is not important for me to display my emotions in front of these
people. I will mislead them and flee once I get the chance." Abu Dawood
entered the room. Abu Abdullah felt as if he has awakened from a nightmare.
Abu Abdullah stood up involuntarily. Abu Dawood extended his hand for a
handshake. The smile on his face was saying this to his student, "Where will
you hide from me, sonny! I know the condition of your heart all too well."
