
# Renewed Enthusiasm

After a long time Musa stood by the bridge of the stream, once again, across
which the independent territory of the Frontier Falcon began. A wooden plank
was stuck on this very tree near the bridge but the writing on the plank was
different from that Musa had previously read when he had first entered the
Valley of the Shaheen. These were the words of the writing:

"Beyond this stream is the kingdom of the Frontier Falcon. Anyone who has
accepted the government of the Abu Abdullah, the traitor, is not permitted to
enter. The oppressed Muslims who want to seek refuge from the atrocities of
the Christians are permitted to enter but the punishment for spies of the
enemies is death."

It was time for Asr prayers. Musa dismounted his horse and tied it to a tree
and after performing ablution from the water of the stream, stood on the lush
green grass to offer his prayers. About twenty-five armed youths appeared from
around the trees and gathered close to Musa. Musa got up after completing
his prayers, turned to them and said, "I would like to meet your emir. My name
is Musa."

"Musa! You?!", a youth said after moving forward and taking a closer look at
him. "You were alive? Where were you all this while?" The youth's concern was
transforming into joy.

Musa said, "Tell your emir that I seek permission to present myself before
him. I will wait here for his orders."

The youth replied, "The Lion of Granada does not need any permission to enter
the Valley of the Falcon."

The youth was the commander of this group of mujahideen. On his single cue, a
soldier brought Musa's tied horse. The youth addressed Musa and said,
"Please mount your horse. Our horses are on the other side of the stream."

After crossing the stream, the youth and five of his companions mounted their
horses and accompanied Musa while the rest disappeared into the woods again.
After passing through the narrow and dark pathways of the forest, they reached
outside the gate of a fort by midnight. Contrary to Musa's expectation, the
gate of the fort was open, while a few men were standing, waiting outside for
them. One of them held a torch. When Musa came near the gate, someone came
forward and got a hold of his horse's reins. Musa got off the horse and
looking towards him in the blurry light of the torch, said, "Is it Bashir?"
Bashir immediately embraced him. Overwhelmed with emotions, Bashir kept
repeating these words, "Where were you? Why did you keep us uninformed about
yourself for so long? Is this a dream?"

After being separated from Bashir's grip, Musa turned his attention towards
the other men. A man clad in black extended his hand towards him. While
shaking his hand, Musa looked at Bashir and Bashir said, "This is Mansoor bin
Ahmed."

After shaking hands with Mansoor, his glance fell upon Abu Mohsin. Abu Mohsin
stood numb and still looking at his commander. Musa extended his hand towards
him and said, "Abu Mohsin! Don't you recognize me?"

In a display of reverence, Abu Mohsin kissed Musa's hand.

All of them entered into the fort. The food-spread was laid out in a spacious
room. Musa said, "You have still not eaten?"

Bashir replied, "We were waiting for you."

"So even at the gate you all were waiting for me? But how did you know that I
was coming?"

Mansoor replied, "When you were about four miles away from our border, we were
informed that a guest is arriving and a little after Maghrib prayers we got
the news as to who our guest was."

After sitting at the food-spread, that scene came in front of Musa's eyes
when he first entered into the valley of the falcons with Al-Zeghel. He was
imagining that feast in the forest whose host was Badr bin Mughira. Today when
Mansoor bin Ahmed assisted him in washing his hands, he suddenly felt like a
stranger. Despite Bashir's rapport and Mansoor's sincerity, he felt a sort of
loneliness in the gathering. He tried to bring Badr bin Mughira's topic but he
could not utter the words. The hosts were waiting for their guest to extend
his hand towards the food.

Basher said, "Please start."

Musa involuntarily picked up a morsel but he had lost his appetite. His hand
stopped as it reached his mouth. Curtains of tears drew in front of his eyes.
A voice drenched in pain came out of his mouth, "Badr! Badr!" and he put down
the bite onto the cloth-spread.

In a state of immense concern, the hosts were looking at him. Musa hid his
face in his sleeves. The mujahid who would make the hearts of lions to
shudder, who had learned to fight storms and play with lightening, who had the
boldness of laughing in the horrific face of death, was crying in this packed
gathering like an innocent child whose dearest toy had broken. "Forgive me. I
was not hungry." Saying this in a husky voice, he got up and left the room.

The hosts looked at each other. Mansoor said, "Wait for a while. I will be
right back. Bashir, you may come along with me."

Musa stood in the courtyard, staring at the twinkling stars in the sky.
"Badr! Badr!", he said while sobbing.

Mansoor stepped forward and while placing his hands on his shoulders said,
"This pessimism doesn't suit the stature of the greatest mujahid of Granada.
Granada's plight is pathetic but we should not loose morale."

Turning around and looking towards him, Musa said, "At the moment I'm not
thinking about Granada. Mansoor! You don't know. Broken walls can be
re-erected. Forts can be rebuilt and the nation's population can be increased
but a messiah that infuses iman into the veins of dead nations is not born
again and again. Badr was a messiah of our nation but we executed him at the
gallows. He was the last drop of blood in the veins of this dead nation. He
was our sword that was broken, he was our arm that had been chopped off, he
was a sun that has set and now we are wandering in the dark.

Galloping of horses could be heard outside the fort. Mansoor looked at Bashir.
Comprehending his cue, Bashir walked towards the gate.

Mansoor said to Musa, "You are exhausted. Let's go and sit inside."

Abu Musa went along with Mansoor without saying anything. After climbing a
flight of stairs made of stone, they entered into a room in the upper story.
Torches were lit in the room. On Mansoor's cue, Musa sat on a chair. While
sitting down on another chair close to him, Mansoor said, "If nature can do
one miracle, then, it can also do another. We had become hopeless in your
case. Today when we heard of your arrival, then, we thought that our men were
mistaken. Isn't it possible that just as we found Musa, similarly, you might
find Badr? Can he also not disappear just like you?"

Becoming a little optimistic, Musa looked towards Mansoor, but then, became
disappointed again and said, "Given the circumstances, looks like you too have
become a poet like me. Hopelessness makes everyone a poet. All along the way I
kept falsely consoling myself that Badr bin Mughira is alive and maybe the
person Abu Abdullah executed was someone else. It could also be that he might
be in prison like me and even while sitting for dinner at your cloth-spread my
eyes were glued at the door. I was waiting for a miracle from nature and when
you asked me to extend my hand towards the food, my flickering flame of hope
was put-off. The reality that Badr bin Mughira's place lies vacant in this
gathering was unbearable for me. If I had raised his topic on my arrival,
then, I would not have behaved like a child at the cloth-spread. But I was
waiting, thinking that he was alive, not dead. Instead of saying anything from
my mouth, I wanted to hear something from your tongue. Mansoor! I am not
unaware of the meaning of life and death. The memories of the dead has never
bothered me. Even in my dreams I have always seen them in another world
instead of this one. Despite the fact that the span of our friendship was very
brief, I feel that he was really close to me in this world. Rather he was part
of my existence."

Someone's footsteps could be heard away from the door. Brining a meaningful
smile to his face, Mansoor said, "Would you like to meet Badr bin Mughira
instantly?"

For a moment Musa kept staring at Mansoor dumbfounded. Hearing the footsteps
outside, he turned his attention towards the door and suddenly his entire life
gathered in his eyes. Clad in iron from head to toe, Badr bin Mughira was in
front of him.

For a moment, Musa sat still in his chair without moving a muscle. Then
gradually his heartbeat started throbbing. His lips shivered. He yelled,
"Badr! Badr!"

Badr took a step forward and opened his arms. Musa got up and embraced him.
He was saying, "Badr! You are alive! My heart has not disappointed me. My
friend! My companion!! My arm!!!"

Tears had already come into Badr's eyes but he remained silent and when they
sat in front of each other, Musa looked towards Mansoor and said, "Both of
you are so mean. Why didn't you inform me as soon as I arrived?"

Manoor answered, "Don't you think that you deserved some sort of punishment
for disappearing for so long? Ask Badr how concerned he was for you. But it
was not our intention to cause you any anxiety. Badr has just come from
outside. Had we told you before, it would have become unbearable for you to
wait even for a moment."

Bashir entered the room and said, "Your arrival is awaited at the
cloth-spread. Please come!"

Badr looked at Musa and said, "Carry on. I will change my clothes and come."

After dinner, Badr bin Mughira, Musa, Bashir and Abu Mohsin returned to this
room and talked for long. Musa had reached here after a long journey and Badr
had come to the fort from a couple of remote checkposts after changing three
horses, but, despite this unprecedented meeting, no one was tired or sleepy.
Both narrated their accounts. Later, a discussion ensued on the present and
future situation.

After asking Abu Mohsin a few questions, Musa said, "After release from
captivity, I had gone to Granada in the guise of a merchant. I stayed there
for only a couple of days within which the opinion I formed of the people
there is that they will support us to save themselves from an undignified
death. Now there is no misunderstanding about Ferdinand. Four hundred thousand
immigrants from other cities are now in Granada and hearing their ordeal every
citizen of Granada is sure that if Abu Abdullah opens the gates of Granada for
Ferdinand's forces, then, their fate won't be any different than the Muslims
of Malaga and the other cities. Contingents of volunteers are guarding the
gates of the city. Day and night there are protests taking place against Abu
Abdullah at the gates of Al-Hamra. I'm positive that if Abu Abdullah does not
respect the feelings of the people, then, the army would support the people
and now even the group of traitors also believes that they would have to empty
their palaces for Ferdinand's troops. At first they were sure that they would
take advantage of being a part of Abu Abdullah's government, and with the
patronage of Ferdinand, plunder the people with both hands. But now fear was
looming over them that if Granada was captured by Ferdinand they would have to
then face dacoits that were more dangerous and merciless than themselves. One
of Tareef's companions had delivered his last message to Abu Abdullah and Abu
Abdullah and his companions were now feeling that if Ferdinand's men can kill
a person like Tareef then no one should have any misunderstanding about
themselves. I'm sure Ferdinand won't delay his attack on Granada. Time is
short and we have a lot to get done."

Badr said, "Ferdinand's troops have left Malaga. I got this news today afternoon."

Musa was startled at this and said, "If this is true then I have to reach
Granada immediately."

Badr bin Mughira said, "I think you still have some misunderstanding about the
people of Granada."

Musa said, "When I thought that the people of Granada would support us for a
life of dignity then that was a wishful thought but now they want to save
themselves of an undignified death and I'm sure when the only option they
would have is death then they would give priority to a death of dignity
instead of death of indignity. This will be the first war against Ferdinand in
which maybe the nation's old traitors and the peace-loving people would also
support us."

Badr bin Mughira said, "And for this jihad you will have to pledge again at
the holy hand of Abu Abdullah."

Musa replied in a state of concern, "I have come to you for Granada not for
Abu Abdullah. Maybe I have some misunderstanding regarding the people of
Granada but I have no misunderstanding about you. Even if I had not come here,
even then you would have come to the aid of the people of Granada."

Badr bin Mughira remained silent for a moment then got up towards the window
and started peeping outside. His back was towards Musa.

Musa said, "Had I not known that given the circumstances we were able to
defend the four walls of Granada, then, I would have joined the ranks of your
mujahideen as an ordinary soldier but I am sure that with your help we can win
this war. Even now, more than one hundred thousand volunteers can be recruited
in Granada."

Suddenly, Badr bin Mughira turned around, looked Musa and said, "Musa! You
know very well that I will not hesitate to offer the biggest sacrifice to save
Granada but the past events have compelled me to think whether we can save
Granada. Whether our past sacrifices for Granada could be of any use? And even
now if we make Granada our defensive entrenchment, wouldn't our further
sacrifices go to waste? Till when will we keep supporting these falling walls
whose foundations have been shaken and till when will our blood keep watering
the tree whose roots have been infested with mites. What I say is a bit harsh
but hiding the vicious face of reality under the veils of beautiful words in
useless. I am willing to admit that the people of Granada are realizing their
mistakes. The courage to defend is sprouting in their hearts and maybe they
might fight too, but, unfortunately, even today, their emir is Abu Abdullah
and even today those people are in power whose treachery turned our glorious
victories to defeats. The people of Granada's shoulders are burdened with dead
bodies that should have been buried a long time ago. You say that the people
demonstrate at the gates of Al-Hamra day and night but isn't the objective of
these protests to have Abu Abdullah come out of his palace and lead them? What
can I say about a people who pickup a rotten corpse and place it on their
shoulders for their guidance in the battlefield. Musa! The sweat and blood of
our ancestors has been spent in building the Al-Hamra but if today its walls
are giving refuge to traitors like Abu Abdullah then for God's sake tell the
people of Granada to bring down those walls. If the gates of Al-Hamra stop
their hands from grabbing the necks of the nation's traitors, then, break
these gates. If the dead have taken the seats of power, then, bury them with
those very seats."

"You should not have any misunderstanding. Our swords were not unsheathed for
some king. We had no love for the so-called royal family of Granada. The
reason we joined hands with Abul Hassan was because he vowed to rid the nation
from the slavery of the enemy. We accepted Al-Zeghel's leadership because he
jumped into the battlefield of the nation's freedom but our failures were
because they did not feel it important to cleanse Granada of the traitors
before jumping into the field. Al-Zeghel got a chance, but instead of hanging
his nephew at the gallows, he made him the ruler of Loja, who handed over that
city to Ferdinand."

"Ask Abu Mohsin. He got a chance to guide the people of Granada but, he too,
made the same mistake. He assembled an army of volunteers and made Abu
Abdullah its leader but along with Abu Abdullah the traitors also came into
the field and his victories transformed to defeats."

"Musa! If you have come here with an invitation of jihad, then you won't be
disappointed but despite all these incidents do we still have to carry the
coffins of Abu Abdullah and his companions? Rest assured that we are not the
type who would close their eyes to an ensuing flood but instead of sitting in
a ship made of twigs, we would put our faith in our hands. We cannot fool
ourselves by taking refuge behind walls of sand."

"You say that seeing their interest in danger, Abu Abdullah and his comrades
will support the people but can you prove that if Ferdinand assures them that
their interests would be safeguarded and that they would be shoved over the
people and would be allowed to suck their blood, won't they stop supporting
the people? Till these people are alive, the life of Granada is in danger and
I don't want to extend their unnatural life. I said what I had to say. Despite
all that I have said, if you command, then, I am at your service and my men
are at your service."

Badr bin Mughira sat on his chair. Musa thought for a while with his head
bowed down. Finally, he said, "You have come to know that Ferdinand is going
to attack Granada and God is my witness that the only question in front of me
is how to save this enclave of the Muslims of Andalus. For us, this is not the
time to think about Abu Abdullah. We will deal with all the traitors when the
time comes. Do you think I would have any mercy in my heart because of whom
the honor of thousands of the nation's daughter has been looted? But now, on
one side we have the enemy who has positioned his lance over our chests and on
the other we have these culprits. If we focus on them, then, the enemy will
not miss his blow. And if, God forbid, Ferdinand captures Granada, then, we're
finished forever. Badr! At the moment my main task is to save the honor of the
thousands of women. If we are able to push back the Christians, then these
hypocrites will be left with only two options. Either they would go after the
people or they would be crushed under their feet. I will leave for Granada
first thing in the morning. If Ferdinand is headed towards Granada, then, you
will know about the strengths of their resistance in a few days. If I become
hopeless, then I would think that instead of Granada, these forests and
mountains are our bastion. I will come to you along with those who want to
fight the enemy till their last breath."

Badr said, "You know well that when you raise your sword against the enemy,
our swords will not be able to stay in the scabbard. If any group in Granada
has vowed to fight till the end, then, do not advise them to come here. They
will come here in a state of hopelessness and there is no place here for
hopeless people. If they stand their ground, then not only us, but Muslims
from all over the world will come to their aid. As for Abu Abdullah and his
comrades, I will reiterate that if circumstances do not permit you to take
immediate action against them, then too it is important that they are watched
closely."

Musa said, "If you don't mind, I would like to take Abu Mohsin along with me."

"How can we have any objection. You may take anyone of us along."

After the morning prayer, Badr bin Mughira and his companions were bidding
farewell to Musa and Abu Mohsin.

Ferdinand had laid siege on Granada. His cowardly troops repeatedly attacked
the city but they had to retreat in the volley of arrows. However, Ferdinand
and his troops were intoxicated in their might. They paid no heed to the minor
losses and continued their siege on the city. The people from the nearby
settlements had already taken refuge in the city once they heard about the
advancement of the Christians. Ferdinand's troops ravaged their lush green
gardens and destroyed their crops.

The city's leadership was in Musa's hand and his morale boosting speech had
breadth new life into the people of Granada. Like the rest of the people, Abu
Abdullah and his comrades had also accepted him as their leader and the people
too had forgotten their past sins. The theologians, along with their students
and followers, had already proclaimed jihad against Ferdinand. The chiefs did
the same on behalf of their tribes. The fervor of the youth was such that they
had hung two influential tribal chiefs for being spies of Ferdinand.

Ferdinand was sure that the people of the city would lay down their arms
themselves as soon as their provisions were exhausted. But one day a little
before sunrise while Ferdinand's troops were awakening, all the gates of the
city were opened and the Muslims came out and attacked. This was an unexpected
attack for Ferdinand. Within no time Muslims had killed about four thousand
Christians. In the meantime, Ferdinand's archers embedded themselves into the
trenches while his foot soldiers and cavalry got time to get organized. Musa
came out and attacked from the western gate with a thousand cavaliers and
played havoc in the formations of the enemy and captured the forward posts of
the archers.

Abu Abdullah appeared from the southern gate and the foot soldiers of the
enemy were compelled to say that the puppet King of Granada has still not
forgotten the skill of marksmanship and horsemanship of his ancestors.

By noon, Ferdinand's troops were retreating from every front but by late
afternoon they had organized their foot soldiers and cavalry behind the last
trench, which made it impossible for Granada's troops to move forward. The
flying arrows became a separator between the formations of the two parties.
Musa had sufficient infantry troops but he did not issue an order for an
all-out attack. His archers had taken up positions in the vicinity of the
city. His cavalry would move forward and launch attacks in small bands and
would return after causing loss to the enemy.

Despite incurring heavy losses, Ferdinand was not shaken. He was now sure that
starvation had forced the Muslims to come of the city and fight and in a day
or two they would have no morale to continue. Therefore, instead of fighting
an offensive battle, he instructed his troops to fight defensively.

After Dhuhr prayers Musa organized his army's formations and ordered his
commanders to prepare for a final assault. When the time came, the heralders
would call them out loudly from the tower of every vallation and then they
should attack the enemy as soon as they hear them.

The experienced people were not optimistic about the outcome of this attack
but rather they thought it to be suicidal. A straight attack onto the
entrenchment of the archers was very dangerous and besides this, Ferdinand's
cavalry was atleast eight times more than Musa's. The infantry, on whom Musa
was relying upon the most, would not be effective in this assault but the
people had full faith in Musa. They were also prepared to jump into the fire
on his cue.

After instructing the troops, Musa entered into the gate of the city, then,
got off his horse and climbed on the boundary wall. Turn by turn, he got up on
every gate of the towers and scanned the horizon. The setting shadows started
aggravating his pessimism. Running on the boundary walls he would jump off a
gate and climb the next and then would ask the guards, "Have you seen anything
as yet?" And when the guards would reply in the negative, he would look
towards the horizon again to console himself.

On the other side, Ferdinand was saying to the Bishop of Castile, "Holy
Father! Pray that the enemy does not postpone the idea of attacking us. If
your prayer is accepted, then, this war will end today." And the Bishop prayed
while kneeling on both knees, in front of the statue of Mary.

For the third time, Musa was climbing the stairs of the tower when a guard
called out, "Dust is rising on the horizon. Maybe some troops are
approaching."

Musa ran up the tower, looked towards the horizon and yelled, "They have
arrived! They have arrived!! Our falcons have arrived!!! Today God has granted
us victory."

And when the horsemen appeared from the clouds of dust, tears of gratitude
flowed out of Musa's eyes. He looked down from the tower and proclaimed
loudly, "Be aware!!"

And within no time the heralders standing on the boundary walls brought the
voice of the emirs of the brigades to the ears of the soldiers. The cavalry
got hold of their lances while the infantry took to their swords.

Musa said "bazin" and this sound of "bazin" echoed at every corner of the
boundary. Musa ran out and mounted his horse.

On the other side, Ferdinand said to the Bishop of Castille, "Holy Father!
Your prayer has been answered. Death does not need to knock at the door of the
enemy. Now they are advancing towards death themselves."

The eyes of the last rays of the setting sun were witnessing yet another
battle between the standard-bearers of the crescent and the cross. The people
of Granada advanced in the volley of arrows. Ferdinand ordered his cavalry to
attack and a thick battle ensued.

Musa, Abu Abdullah and Abu Mohsin were leading the contingents of the cavalry
from three sides of the city while the infantry had already attacked the
archers in the trenches. Musa advanced forward after breaking through the
enemy lines from the northern gate. Ferdinand galloped his horse forward and
yelled, "Don't let anyone of the horsemen of this contingent to go back to the
city alive. Don't pursue them. They will return."

After passing through the enemy lines, Musa vanished into the thick trees of
a garden in the rear with five hundred horsemen while Ferdinand's archers
waited for their return. But Musa came behind the troops from the other side
of the city and simultaneously a new army appeared from the north – an army
who, besides Musa and Abu Mohsin, no one was aware of.

The mujahids of the Frontier Falcon had arrived to the aid of the people of
Granada. Badr bin Mughira attacked from the rear of the enemy with three
thousand horsemen and within no time crushed the enemy lines. A confused
Ferdinand ordered his troops to move to the right but in the meantime Musa
had already attacked from the rear. Now Ferdinand's troops faced Badr bin
Mughira's horsemen in the front while Musa's fighters were in the rear. On
the third side, Ferdinand's troops had pushed Abu Abdullah's cavalry back but
here too the Christians had to face an unprecedented challenge. Suddenly, two
thousand horsemen appeared from their rear and in the fog of the evening they
thought that reinforcements had reached them but when the advancing troops
attacked with the slogans of "Allahu Akbar", they started retreating towards
the right. The troops under the Abu Abdullah that were retreating saw this
change in situations and re-launched an attack. Now Ferdinand's entire army
were pushed to one side of the city. On their right and left flanks were Badr
bin Mughira and Mansoor bin Hassan's horsemen. In the rear were Musa's
fighters while the remainder of the army were in front fighting under the
leadership of Abu Abdullah and Abu Mohsin. On the fourth side of the city,
next to which the river flowed, was peaceful.

Because of the light of the twelfth night of the moon, there was no decline in
the pace of the battle. The enemy's forces were gradually retreating and the
handful of Musa's fighters in the rear were enough to stop their path.

Mansoor rode his horse around the enemy and ended up in the rear and said to
Musa, "Remove your troops immediately from here."

Musa said, "But I think instead of moving from here it would be better if I
moved a contingent of my troops here. They can get here maneuvering either
from the left or right. If we push them towards the city, then they would come
in the range of the archers."

"But what if they enter into the city?"

"I have ordered for the gates to be closed."

"This suggestion of yours was not bad but the infantry cannot be brought back
to the rear so quickly. The number of the enemy's cavalry is far more than
ours and if they maneuver right or left then we cannot stop them without
incurring a huge loss. This is no time to argue. If we delay any further, I'm
afraid the enemy will become aware of a very vital strategy of ours."

Musa said, "Very well. If Badr bin Mughira agrees with your suggestion, then
I have no objection in removing my troops from here."

"Both of us think on the same wavelength. Leave this front and come to the
other side immediately otherwise the enemy will be alerted. Keep retreating to
a far distance and then empty the field for the enemy."

This battle had reached a decisive stage. Surrounded from three sides, the
Christians were retreating. Seeing this, Ferdinand was compelled to call in
his reserve troops to the field that were away from the battlefield, guarding
the camps. Once again the Christians had consolidated their position.

Suddenly, a little away from the battlefield, a fresh group of border
mujahideen appeared from the dense trees of a garden. These horsemen, who were
around a hundred had torches in their hands and they were headed towards the
encampment of Ferdinand's forces instead of the battlefield. Most of the
reserve troops had already arrived at the battlefield. Ferdinand's remaining
soldiers tried to save the camps and supply of provisions but the bolt-speed
horsemen entered the encampment from one side, and burning the camps, left
from the other. The reserve troops were trying to recover when another band of
horsemen appeared from the rear.

In one of the tents was the Bishop of Castile with some thirty monks bowed
down, praying for the victory of the cross in front of the statue of the Holy
Mary. The guards outside started yelling, "Holy Father, the tent is on fire!"

Apart from the fire of the tents, a huge stock of hay too had caught fire and
its light was reaching the battlefield. The soldiers of the Christian army,
without waiting for orders from their commanders, and the commanders without
waiting for orders from their general turned their attention towards the tents
and with this, immediately all of Badr bin Mughira's cavalry stormed them.

The retreating troops saw no refuge in their encampment that had nothing but
burning tents all around. Taking advantage of the light, the troops in pursuit
would surround and slaughter them. The bewildered horses were falling after
getting entangled in ropes.

Ferdinand gave the order to blow the trumpet for a retreat and the remainder
of his troops left the tents and ran. Musa ordered his infantry to guard the
provisions while his cavalry was ordered to continue the pursuit of the enemy.

Badr bin Mughira and Mansoor bin Ahmed had surrounded the enemy from the right
and left and the cavalry of Granada was behind them. The only way left open
for Ferdinand's troops was towards the front.

After chasing the enemy for about three miles, Badr bin Mughira came close to
Musa and said loudly, "There is a stream at the little distance. Stop your
troops. The enemy has come in the range of our final blow. Bring the mounted
archers forward. The enemy will soon return."

Musa ordered his troops to halt. He had understood that Badr bin Mughira had
not revealed his plans to the people of Granada due to some broad interest. He
had also evaluated how dangerous and devastating Badr bin Mughira's last
arrows of the quiver would be for the enemy once they reached the stream.

Ferdinand halted his horse thinking that the enemy was no longer in pursuit.
He gathered his scattered troops but once he heard the galloping of enemy
horses from the right and left flanks, he ordered his troops to move forward.
At the banks of the stream, the defeated army had to face a new challenge. The
bridge was broken and the corpses of the soldiers were lying around who
Ferdinand had assigned for guarding the bridge.

For the first time, the people of Castile felt that a new problem awaited them
across the stream but Ferdinand had no time to think. He ordered his troops to
cross the bridge The stream was not that deep. Even the water was hardly
reaching the stirrups but the banks were high.

As soon as the first batch of horses jumped into the water, the soft tones of
the pleasantly flowing water transformed into an uproar. The cries of "Allahu
Akbar" were raised from the other side of the stream and immediately a volley
of arrows rained from the trees.

Injured horsemen were falling into the water as they got hit while the horses
ran here and there in utter confusion. Once again the people of Castile were
facing a doomsday. The remainder who hadn't entered the stream, turned their
horses to retreat and the ones who survived in the stream also turned around
and retreated. In the meantime, the pursuers from the right and left flanks
had caught up with them. Only the rear was open to them. When they turned
around and ran a short distance they came in the range of Musa's archers.
After passing from the range of the archers, they were to face a wall of
lancers. Mansoor bin Ahmed had left the right flank and joined up with the
cavalry of Granada. The Castilians turned towards the right. Now they
attempted to move along the stream towards the south and cross the stream from
a safe place but on the other side of the stream another group of cavalry was
advancing with them, who were also shooting arrows as they moved along. In
such circumstances, Ferdinand shuddered at the imagination of an ultimate
destruction. Now he was confronting that situation. The only option left for
him was to cross the Genil river in the south. This stream from whose banks
his troops were being pursued flowed out of this river. From the left and rear
flanks, they were being badly pushed towards the stream by their pursuers. On
the other side of the stream, the contingent of cavalry archers that was on
fresh horses was continuously raining arrows at them.

As they approached the stream, most of the horses of Ferdinand's troops were
free from the burden of their horsemen. The mujahideen were slaughtering them
with their swords instead of their lances. Their hands were becoming numb but
the joy of victory was making each one outshine the other. Badr bin Mughira
saw a horseman from Granada on his left. His aventail and armor shone in the
moonlight but the thing that caught Badr bin Mughira's attention was his
beautiful horse. After slaughtering a few enemies, he advanced forward. A
Castilian cavalryman who got injured from his lance turned his horse around
and attacked him. The Granadian horseman blocked his blow with his sword but
in the meantime another Castilian soldier injured him with his lance from
behind and moved forward. Despite being injured, this horseman did not halt
his horse but killed two more men, one after the other.

Words of appreciation flowed out of Badr bin Mughira's mouth and he went up
close and said, "I'm glad at your bravery but there is no need to go into the
midst of the enemy."

After a while when Badr bin Mughira's glance fell on the horseman from Granada
again, he was drained and bent towards his saddle.

Badr bin Mughira advanced his horse and said, "You're wounded." The horseman's
sword fell from his hand and he rested his head on his hands. Badr bin Mughira
put his arm around his back and pulled him onto his horse.

By midnight the remainder of Ferdinand's troops were crossing the river and
the mujahideen were raining arrows at them. This was the biggest defeat of
Ferdinand's life.

After this glorious victory, Musa came down from his horse and performed a
long prostration. His lips kept repeating this supplication: "Oh
Oft-forgiving, Merciful Lord! We were not worthy of this yet You rewarded us.
This is Your mercy upon us." Then he got up and looked at his companions. Badr
bin Mughira was at a distance, calling Bashir. Musa ran and grabbed the reins
of his horse, pulled his hand towards his lips and said, "Badr! Remove your
aventail. The people of Granada are dying to see the face of the angel who has
brought a thousand blessing of his Lord with him."

Badr replied, "At the moment, the only faces worth seeing are those whose
foreheads are shining with the blood of martyrdom. After this victory I have
no objection to reveal myself but at the moment, don't turn the people's
attention towards me. Currently, Ferdinand's infantry is scattered in the
region. We should not give them a chance to escape." Saying this Badr bin
Mughira removed his aventail's veil.

Musa said, "God-willing very few of them will escape. I want our horses to
freshen up."

In the meantime, Abu Mohsin, Mansoor and the other officers of the army
gathered around them. Badr bin Mughira said, "Mansoor! Today you deserve my
sword and my horse. I didn't know that you were so well-aware of this area's
ups and downs. I'm proud of you."

For a valiant commander such words from a revered leader were a huge reward.

Badr bin Mughira looked here and there and said, "Bashir has still not arrived
as yet. I hope with the grace of God he survived!"

"Where is Bashir?" said Musa alarmingly.

"I had left an injured man of your army on the other side of the stream. I had
sent Bashir to provide first aid to him. His white horse was very beautiful
and by his attire too, he appeared to be a high ranking official of your army.
He's certainly brave but very zealous. I would like to see him. I think he has
been injured very badly."

A horseman came forward and said to Musa, "No one knows the whereabouts of
the Sultan. Some men have seen his vacant horse."

A sort of anxiety appeared on Badr bin Mughira's face and he said, "I thought
that the soldiers of Granada had freed themselves from the burden of the
corpse by now. If by the Sultan you mean Abu Abdullah, then I'm afraid he
could have reached Granada once again and might have ordered the gates of the
city to be closed for the soldiers by now."

Mansoor said, "I have seen him but you will be surprised that I had patronized
him two or three times against my wishes. When Abu Mohsin told me that he's
Abu Abdullah, I couldn't believe him."

Musa said, "Instead of the city, I bought him to the battlefield thinking he
would be harmless."

Before Badr could say anything, Bashir arrived galloping his horse close to
him and said, "That injured man is desperate to meet you."

Badr enquired, "How is his condition now?"

"There is a wound in his rib but, God-wiling, he will survive."

The injured man sat resting against an olive tree. A few soldiers stood around
him. Seeing Badr bin Mughira and his companions the soldiers stepped aside.
Badr got off his horse and went close to the injured man. At first glance Badr
bin Mughira couldn't recognize him but as he sat with a knee on the ground and
looked at him, a shiver ran through his body after which he stood up. The
injured man raised his head and said in a feeble voice, "Today you have saved
the life of someone who didn't deserve to live. I am your criminal. I am your
murderer. I regret my sins and you have all the right to pronounce the worst
of punishments for me."

Badr bin Mughira stood silently looking at him. It was Abu Abdullah in front
of him. That very Abu Abdullah whose reputation of being a nation seller was
engraved in the heart of every mujahid of Andalus...something that was
difficult to forgive or forget even for a person like Badr bin Mughira.

He was saying to himself, "Alas! I wish I hadn't seen your face at this
auspicious occasion."

Musa, Bashir, Abu Mohsin and Mansoor stood silently behind Badr bin Mughira
looking at each other. From Badr bin Mughira's face, it was not difficult to
analyze his thoughts.

Abu Abdullah suddenly got up, limped a step forward and started looking at
Badr bin Mughira. A voice drenched in pain came out of his lips, "Why don't
you kill me. The burden of my sins has become unbearable for me now."

Tears flowed out of Abu Abdullah's eyes. Badr bin Mughira stood like a rock.
Abu Abdullah again said, "I had gotten rid of the burden of life. The horses
of my enemy were about to crush my body but you oppressed me. For God's sake,
kill me. My burden has become too much for this earth to bear." He was crying.

There was no room in Badr bin Mughira's heart for a traitor like Abu Abdullah
but even an ordinary mujahid isn't accustomed to assaulting a fallen enemy no
matter how angry he might be. He said, "Abu Abdullah! Your tears don't impress
me but your robe has stains of blood. In the battlefield, your blood has mixed
with the blood of martyrs. I can't raise my hand on you. As far as I'm
concerned, I forgive you but as for a nation's criminal, only the people have
the right to forgive you. I also know that the people of Granada are
benevolent to the point of stupidity. They will forget the past when they see
the blood on your clothes. They will proclaim, 'Long live Sultan Abu Abdullah'
as soon as they see you. But Abu Abdullah! For God's sake, next time don't try
to betray such a benevolent and simple-hearted people. Believe me, had this
meeting taken place in the parliaments of Al-Hamra instead of the battlefield,
then, maybe my sword wouldn't have given you the opportunity to talk. Despite
the protests of the people of Granada, I wouldn't have stopped from chopping
the head of a man who sold the honor of the daughters of the nation at the
hands of the enemy for the love of wearing the crown. But at the moment you
are a soldier of the nation. Your sword is stained with the blood of the enemy
and maybe a few drops of your blood might have wiped the darkness of your
past."

Abu Abdullah had no more strength. He limped backwards and supporting himself
with a tree and said, "You a very benevolent but I know that even the entire
water of the oceans is not enough to wash away my sins. Alas! If only you
wouldn't have saved me from the fangs of death." He closed his eyes becoming a
bit fatigued. He was about to fall when Bashir stepped forward, held him and
gradually laid him on the ground.

As he placed his foot in the stirrup, Badr said, "Bashir! His protection is
your responsibility. We have a lot to get done." Musa, Mansoor and Abu Mohsin
also got on their horses.

Ferdinand's infantry that was left behind the cavalry was running here and
there in a state of confusion and the contingents of Granada's cavalry were
hunting and slaughtering them down. Those who tried to hide in the gardens and
farms were being tracked down by contingents of Granada's infantry. To strike
a final blow at the fleeing enemy, even the city's elderly men and young boys
had come out of the city into the battlefield. The field was empty by dawn.
The enemy's corpses lay at every step. The prisoners taken were around five
thousand while the number of those killed were four times more.

The victorious army offered its Fajr prayers at the banks of the river Genil.
On Musa's insistence, Badr bin Mughira performed the duty of leading the
prayers. After prayers, this was his brief supplication, "O Giver of reward
and punishment! Grant us the iman of our ancestors. Let our heads not be bowed
in front of anyone but You! Grant us the guidance to submit to You and grant
us the courage to die for the sake of the religion of our beloved Nabi (Peace
be upon him). Aameen!"

After the supplication, Badr bin Mughira stood silently for a while. The
mujahids of the valley of the falcon were looking at their leader with pride
and the glances of the people of Granada were filled with love, respect and
gratitude towards their benefactor. Badr bin Mughira said:

"My dear elders and brothers! Congratulations on this glorious victory but
don't think that you have gotten rid of the dangers to come after winning this
war. You have merely pushed back the enemy from the four walls of Granada but
most part of your Sultanate is still under enemy occupation. Even after
recapturing those areas your work will still not be finished. You cannot take
a sigh of relief until you capture all of Andalus. If you sleep after this
victory, then remember that nature does not wake up a sleeping nation again
and again. When it sees signs of life in a nation it shakes it but when it
becomes hopeless, then, it sings it a lullaby into the paws of death. The
Muslims of Andalus are suffering because of the deeds of these rulers of
yours, who had given up most of the areas to the enemy and slept thinking that
a small area of Granada is sufficient for them. For centuries the oppressed
Muslims of Andalus were waiting that their brothers from Granada would come to
their aid but you kept sleeping. Your brothers were ground in the mill of
tyranny and oppression in Andalus. The hand of savagery and brutality kept
ripping away the dignity and honor of your daughters but you kept sleeping.
Your honor did not gush out. Their lips kept pleading, tears kept flowing from
their eyes but you didn't budge an inch. You kept entertaining yourself with
melodies of happiness.

Abul Hassan rose to expiate the sins of his predecessors but the ones who are
used to sleeping to the sweet sound of the rubab found the sound of clashing
swords disturbing and you tied the hands of this great mujahid.

You woke up when the flood reached at your doors. For the first time your
emirs thought that besides the huts of the people even their palaces were in
danger. I consider that too as a mercy of the Lord but remember that this
victory of yours is the first step to your destination. Your destination is
very far. Your path is filled with trenches that you have to cross with your
corpses. You have merely seen a glimmer of light on the dark horizon of your
life. If you remain awake, then the morning is not far but, God forbid, if you
go to sleep again, then, this victory of yours would be the last ray of light
of the setting sun.

I'm not impressed by the enemy but you shouldn't have any misunderstanding
regarding them. Their resources are unlimited. The number of their troops is
far greater than ours. France, Rome and other Christian states of Europe are
backing them. To obliterate us, they all have rallied under one banner and in
contrast, we have been cut-off from the Muslim world after the fall of Almeria
and Malaga. The enemy has surrounded us from all sides. Despite all this, if
you guarantee not to repeat your past mistakes then I assure you that no power
can defeat you. And if you don't learn from your past and if you don't unite
against the combined forces of the enemy and continue to fight with each other
on the instruction of those hypocrites who spread racism amongst you, then,
remember that just as your brothers in the rest of Andalus are paying the
price of the mistakes of their ancestors, similarly, your generations would
carry the burden of your sins.

Be vigilant to the moves of your enemy and more than the enemy beware of your
traitors. No doubt that most of them have fought with you in this battle and
some have washed the darkness of their sins with their blood but it is
possible that in dire circumstances they could betray you once again. Keep a
close eye on them and don't give them the opportunity to repeat their
mistakes. This can only be possible if you have strict accountability and
there is no place for mercy in your national character for traitors and nation
sellers.

This is the first battle in which Abu Abdullah might have fought with noble
intentions alongside his people and I pray that he keeps supporting his people
in the future but make sure that he knows that he would not be successful in
betraying you again.

The enemy will not sit silently after this defeat. They would attack again
with an even larger force and you should start preparing for this from today
itself. It is your great fortune that you have been blessed with a leader like
Musa.

I have to return immediately. It's possible that the enemy might move towards
our territory but I promise that you will find me among you whenever the need
arises."

After Badr bin Mughira, Musa got up and made the following speech:

"Muslims! Four hundred years ago when the Christians took advantage of our
internal anarchy and captured most of the areas of our Sultanate, then,
destiny sent Yousuf bin Tashfeen to our aid who got rid of such an enemy for
the Muslims that had a tight noose around us for a long time and today when
the hypocrites amongst us had opened the doors of our homes for the enemy,
when a group of hypocrites had made us wear the shackles of Ferdinand's
slavery for a few pieces of humiliation, Badr bin Mughira came as an angel of
mercy for us.

Yesterday's sun saw dark clouds of hopelessness on your faces and today's sun
sees the smiles of gladness on your lips. The mujahideen of the border have
taught you a forgotten lesson and that is that the secret of the strength of
the Muslims is not in their number but rather in their iman.

History is a witness that whenever Muslims have taken a defeat, it was because
of the traitors amongst us and not because of the enemy's strength. This
victory of ours today is proof that we can crush even a formidable enemy even
in these pitiable circumstances. Whatever has been lost upto today is because
of our mistakes. You listened to the traitors, you supported the hypocrites.
You left the support of the Lord and took the support of Ferdinand and you saw
with your own eyes that children, the elderly and the women of Basta, Almeria
and Malaga are taking the punishment of your deeds. You came to the
battlefield when you knew that fighting was the last option left for you. You
came to put out the fire when most of your homes were gutted.

At this auspicious occasion, I don't want to repeat the bitter events of the
past. But remember! We have merely won a battle and the war is yet to be won.
A long and patience-demanding war, without which, we cannot a take a sigh of
relief in this country and to get the ultimate victory in this war it is vital
that we cure all those diseases that transformed Abul Hassan's and Al-Zeghel's
glorious victories to defeats. We would have to rid ourselves of those
traitors that have sold our dignity and liberty at the hands of the enemy for
the sake of a few pennies. We would have to cleanse Granada from the existence
of these coward and mentally-defeated men that are impressed by the might of
the enemy. We should be wary of those miscreants who are trying to pit the
Hispanians, Berbers and the Arabs against each other.

I know that Al-Hamra has still not been cleansed of hypocrites. And some of
you might also have the understanding that I might not extend my hand towards
those criminals of the nation who are still Ferdinand's agents due to the fear
of invoking Abu Abdullah's displeasure. But let me assure you that even if I
have doubts about Abu Abdullah's intentions then I will grab his collar and
bring him in front of you and tell you that he has betrayed the nation even
after repenting and now it would be a sin to show mercy to him. Abu Abdullah
has promised me that he would not favor anyone of the nation's traitors. I
announce before you that I will not tolerate any interference from Abu
Abdullah on all those matters pertaining to Granada's security and God forbid
even I were to commit a national crime, then, what I expect from you is that
you do not forgive me either."

An elderly chief of Granada got up and said, "It is our collective wish that
our brothers of the borders to passby Granada before moving on. The people
must be desperate to see Badr bin Mughira."

Musa looked at Badr bin Mughira but he shook his head. Musa said to the
elderly chief, "A while ago even I had wished to host our benefactor for
atleast a day but after exchanging views with Badr bin Mughira I came to the
conclusion that even we should not go to Granada at the moment. We should
continue our advance. The people of those regions that are currently occupied
by the enemy are more desperately waiting for us compared to the people of
Granada."
