
<!-- Chapter 3 -->

# The Nation-Sellers



During the night, in a room of the royal palace of Castile, Queen Isabella and
King Ferdinand sat on gilded chairs, facing each other. The expressions on
their faces showed that both were in deep thought.

Trying to bring a smile to her face, the Queen said, "Why are you so worried.
I don't think that the tribute amount is such a big issue to cause you
concern."

The King replied, "Oh Queen! I'm not concerned about the tribute. I spend more
on maintaining the border check post than the tribute I receive from Abul
Hassan but his refusal to paying the tribute shows that he has confidence in
his strength. Unfortunately, there is no other claimant to the throne of
Granada. So far, more than our swords, the primary guarantee for our successes
was the disunity among the Muslims."

The Queen said, "Even if the Muslims of Granada have united, I don't think
that they would raise their head against us. I am sure that they have not
forgotten what happened to the rebels of Cordova, Toledo and Seville."

The King said, "Queen, you are talking about those times when there was much
infighting between the Hispanians, Berbers and Arab-Muslims. Our ancestors had
worked extremely hard to take advantage of their disunity which helped them in
capturing three regions of Spain. Otherwise, I am not ready to believe that
had they been united as one like us, we could not have gained victory over
them."

The Queen replied, "This was the Holy Mary's grace upon us that they split
up."

"Perhaps with Holy Mary's grace, like Cordova and Toledo, the Muslims of
Granada too continue to remain divided, otherwise, I know that their unity
can compel the enemy, no matter how mighty, to its knees. If they remain
scattered, they would be like piles of dust in the face of a mildly blowing
wind but if they are united they will prove to be like an invincible rock
even to a huge storm. I have come to know that a few scholars are trying to
motivate them in the name of Islam. If this is true, then, I would not
consider these words of Abul Hassan as empty threats that 'instead of gold
and silver coins for tribute our mint manufactures swords of steel'. Oh
Queen, the truth is that instead of the army, I was relying more on the fact
that I would take advantage of the civil war in Granada."

"But even if the chances of civil war are not present in Granada, we should
not hesitate to use our armed forces. I don't believe in giving the enemy
time for preparations."

"This is what I was thinking too. But because of Santiago's stupidity we have
still not been able to wash away the stains of negative publicity that our
soldiers' good reputation had received."

The Queen said, "Can't we recognize the Frontier Falcon as an independent
ruler and have some agreement with him against Granada?"

"No, rather I'm afraid if Abul Hassan announces to revolt against us, he would
give him unconditional support."

An army officer entered the room, bowed in respect and said, "Abu Dawood seeks
permission to enter."

Ferdinand furiously said, "We had ordered that he should be presented in front
of us immediately."

Overwhelmed, more by the voice than the words, the army officer quickly exited
after paying his respects.

The Queen said, "Do you trust Abu Dawood to be loyal to you even after he goes
to Granada?"  The King replied, "After having Mughira captured, he has gained
our trust for life." "But his access to the Royal Court of Granada would not
be that easy."



Abu Dawood entered the room. He appeared to be around 45-50 years of age. From
his features and complexion, he seemed to be a mix of Spanish and Arab
descent. Although most of his beard was white, his face had the freshness of a
youth. He sported a black robe and white turban.

Abu Dawood move forward, first kissed the King's and then the Queen's hand,
took three steps backwards and stood respectfully.

The King gestured towards an empty chair and said, "Have a seat."

Abu Dawood reluctantly said, "The slave wouldn't dare disobey, however, I
would like to submit that even standing in front of my King and Queen is a
great honor for me."

Ferdinand said while smiling, "The King and Queen order you to sit."

"The slave wouldn't dare disobey." Saying this Abu Dawood sat on the chair.

Ferdinand said, "We believe that nature's signs dawn up you before they do on
our holy monks. Once again we would like to test your intelligence. Tell us,
what is the challenge that we are faced with today?"

Abu Dawood replied, "Even a display of this slave's ordinary intelligence and
wisdom would be disrespectful. However, I would comply with your command. The
Great Emperor wishes for this slave to proceed to Granada."

Ferdinand said, "If you had replied wearing the attire of a monk, we would
have believed this to be a miracle of your spirituality. But we know that you
rely on your intelligence more than anything else. Tell us, how did you arrive
to the conclusion that we would like for you go to go to Granada?"

"The slave had come to know that Abul Hassan has refused to pay tribute. Then,
the slave came to know that the Great Emperor has called in a council.
Moments after the conclusion of the council of the ministers, the Emperor's
emissary had come to me. In such circumstances, it was not difficult for me
to understand what was to be expected of me. I fully understand that if you
would send me to a front against Abul Hassan, then, that front could only be
Granada."

"Then, I'm sure you must have also thought-out what you would have to do on
this front?"

"Yes, I believe, in order to sow disunity in Granada it is important that we
come up with another claimant to the throne and this slave of yours would be
able to decide who that other claimant could be only after he's in Granada."

"What is your opinion about Al-Zeghel?"

"In my opinion, Al-Zeghel would give unconditional support to his brother.
But..."

"But what?"

"I cannot say this with surety. There are some reports that this job can be
done by using one of Abul Hassan's sons. I have heard that Abu Abdullah fears
that his father would make one of his step-brothers the crown prince. I have
also heard that Abul Hassan likes his Christian wife more."

Ferdinand jumped with excitement and said, "Then what are you waiting for? If
Abu Abdullah has that doubt then you can change it to a fact. Then, you should
leave by tomorrow itself."

Abu Dawood said, "I am ready to go but in the type of work I'm undertaking, it
requires that I take my family along. I might have to stay there until such
time I get all the gates of the city open for your forces. The slightest doubt
about me could nullify all our efforts. Therefore, I want to cross the border
posing like a refugee. On reaching Granada, more than me, my wife and
daughters would elaborate the tales of your barbaric rule so that no one
suspects us. Another reason for taking my wife is that through her it would be
easier for me to have access to the harem of Abul Hassan."

Ferdinand said, "Surely Abu Dawood, your services won't be in vain. We promise
that you would be our first governor in Granada. And until the time the throne
of Andalus remains with our family, the governorship will remain with your
family. If you so desire, I can give this to you in writing."

"This servant considers your words no less than your writing."

"Very well then. Meet me first thing in the morning. The royal treasury will
supply you with your needs for the mission of Granada."



It was raining heavily. A coach of four horses, drenched in puddle, stopped at
the gate of a border fort of Ferdinand's kingdom. The guards of the fort, who
were waiting at its gates, ran out and gathered around the coach.

A youth, who appeared to be their officer, moved forward, opened the door of
the coach, peeped inside and after greeting them respectfully said, "I had
received instructions of your arrival from the governor. Fresh horses are
ready but the journey in a horse carriage might prove to be painful for you in
this rainstorm. So, if you think it appropriate, do stay here until at least
the rain stops and the water from the mountains settles down. Your food is
ready."

Abu Dawood replied while peeping outside, "This weather is perfect for my
journey. We will leave this place as soon as we have had our food. I would
also like to give you some instructions regarding our journey." "We will
follow every order of yours with our heart and soul. Please come."

Abu Dawood came out of the coach along with his wife and two young daughters.
One of the girls, whose name was Angela appeared to be two or three years
younger than the other girl. Her round face, blue-eyes and blonde hair were
exactly like her mother's. Her looks too resembled a glimpse of her mother's
youth.

The other girl's name was Rabia. She was Angela's stepsister. Rabia's black,
shiny eyes were quite different to her stepmother and sister. She was even
taller than both of them. Seeing the slight redness in the fairness of her
face, it seems as if nature's painter had mixed milk and honey and
complemented it with a bit of pink. With the combination of seriousness and
mischievousness in her looks, nature had made her an amazing posture of female
beauty and elegance.

There was a slight resemblance in Rabia and Angela. A resemblance that could
be felt but couldn't be described. Both girls were beautiful. If Angela's
beauty was the laughter of a desert flower, Rabia's earnestness had a
seemingly smile of a budding flower.

Led by the army officer, these people entered into a room of the castle and
sat on the chairs around the dining table.

The servants brought sumptuous food in dishes of silver and placed it on the
table. On Abu Dawood's signal, the army officer too sat down on one of the
chairs. While having food, Abu Dawood asked the officer, "How far is Granada's
first check post?"

The officer replied, "About eight miles. However, three miles down the road
you will enter into their border. I think if I write to the officer of their
check post, he can make some arrangements for your protection across the
border. But the governor has instructed me that I should not let him know
anything at all."

Abu Dawood replied, "The governor has followed my instructions. I am not
entering their border as an ambassador to the King but would like to go in as
a Muslim refugee."

"In my opinion, if you want to deceive them, then, leave this coach and this
road and travel either by foot or on horses by using a different route,
otherwise, don't you think they would become suspicious as to how come your
coach slipped by our watchful eyes?"

"I believe the merchants of Granada and Castile travel these roads unimpeded.
However, the plan that I have thought-out should be successful to a certain
extent. Order 20 of your horsemen to get ready and instruct them to stay
behind us and when we increase our coach's speed on nearing Granada's border,
then, they should act as if they are trying to intercept us. When the
soldiers at Granada's check post see that the Christians are trying to
intercept us, then, they would surely interfere. We will get their refuge and
your soldiers will return after a minor skirmish."

"Although the plan is good, the road ahead is rough. I fear that during the
dash, your coach could get into an accident."

Abu Dawood replied, "Minor incidents do happen in such circumstances. If the
coachman is injured or a horse is hit by an arrow or two, then, even this is
considered to be a minor thing."

"Very well, then, I will personally take part in this task along with my
soldiers."

On the army officer's order, a servant called in a soldier of the fort. The
officer said to the soldier,

"Order 20 horsemen to get ready. We are going on a mission."

Then he turned towards Abu Dawood and said, "Have you heard anything about the
Frontier Falcon?"

Hearing these words, Abu Dawood's wife and daughters were startled and looked
at the officer. Abu Dawood replied calmly, "Yes. I have heard a lot about him,
but, I believe his territory is quite far from here."

"His territory is quite far from here but his comrades have snatched away our
horses three times."

"When?" Angela enquired.

"Last year. This year he has not focused on us but last year he had captured
this fort too for a week." Angela asked, "So, you surely must have seen him.
What is he like?"

"Well, he did not remove his mask in front of us but from the sound of his
voice he didn't seem much of age."

Maria asked, "So, then, how did you remove him from the fort?"

"Well, he left on his own will. He only needed our surplus grain and horses."

Angela said, "I have heard that he's very cruel."

The officer replied, "His biggest virtue is that he is not cruel. He does not
raise his hand on the unarmed and helpless. He does not attack a befallen
enemy. No doubt he's the biggest enemy of our kingdom, but, he's a decent
enemy."

Abu Dawood said, "I must appreciate your honesty. Like you, Santiago too,
admires his nobility."

Angela said, "Father! If we were to meet him along the way, I'm sure he would
supply us with his best horses to complete the journey."

Rabia asked, "Why do people call him 'The Frontier Falcon'?"

The office replied, "This title was given to him by Count Santiago because
when it comes to being fierce, fast and clever, he's no less than a falcon."

Abu Dawood asked, "Is it true that he's Mughira's son?"

"There are different opinions about that. Some say that he's his son, some say
he's some Moroccan."

Abu Dawood said, "We'll soon come to know who he is."

The officer enquired, "Does His Highness the King plan to launch an attack?"

Abu Dawood replied, "His force is not that large to have the King to
personally launch an attack. A clever man is enough for him who is familiar
with his war tactics.



The rain continued to pour heavily. After riding with normal speed for about a
mile and a half, Abu Dawood ordered his coachman to increase the speed of the
coach. The horsemen who were pursuing stopped their horses on the signal of
their officer. When the coach had about a mile's lead, the horsemen gave it a
chase.

In the lower part of the valley, some parts of the road had disappeared under
the rain water therefore, despite Abu Dawood's insistence, the coachman was
taking precaution to a certain extent. When the distance between the coach and
its chasers would become very little, then, the chasers would reduce their
speed to let the coach take a lead.

Due to the flooding, the road had been damaged from several sides. Because of
the jumps of the coach caused by the rocks and holes on the road, Abu Dawood's
wife and younger daughter, Angela, were protesting severely. Even Abu Dawood's
head had bumped with his wife and daughter several times but he appeared to be
absolutely heedless to Angela's screams and his wife's cries. Once, the coach
bounced after hitting a stone that was submerged in water on the road. A
screaming Maria's jumped and her head went and hit the ceiling. She cried,
"Order the coach to stop or else I will open the door and jump. You are a
barbarian. You want to get rid of us before reaching Granada? For God's sake,
stop the coach."

With another powerful jolt Maria's and Angela's heads collided against each
other. When Angela started wailing, Abu Dawood said, "If I knew that you would
prove to be as courageous as your mother, I would never had brought you along.
Look at Rabia. She hasn't even uttered a word of complain from her mouth."

As soon as Abu Dawood said this, Maria and Angela lashed out at Rabia.

Maria said, "Rabia is glad to go to people of her race and religion."

Angela shouted, "Rabia is even sure that in case of an accident, you will
first attend to her."

Ignoring their taunts and sarcasm, she said, "Father! Why do you bother Angela
and Mother? Please order the coach to stop."

Abu Dawood said, "Maria! Be a little patient. We have entered in Granada's
border. As soon as their men see us in this condition, they will try to
intervene. When I had given this suggestion at home, you jumped with joy. Now
you're upset because of a little discomfort. A person has to go through a lot
of dangerous phases to get power and prestige."

Maria shouted and said, "You're so stupid. Who on earth would be waiting for
you in this storm? They must be sitting comfortably in their rest houses."

Abu Dawood said, "Nonetheless, it is important that we continue like this
until their check post. Otherwise, we won't be able convince them that we are
on the run and the King's soldiers are chasing us."

The coach was now moving along a more stable road uphill, therefore, Maria and
Angela's tongues were wagging lesser. Their excitement, too, was subsiding.

The coachman yelled, "I have seen a horseman."

"Our job is almost done. He will soon alert his comrades."

Saying this he looked out from the window of the coach towards the rear and
signaled with his hand to the pursuing horsemen. At the same time, he
instructed the coachman to gallop faster.

After a while when the coach was descending down the mountain, the coachman
yelled loudly, "The water seems to be a lot more, down the valley. There is no
sign of the road. Dashing blindly forward could be very dangerous."

Abu Dawood said, "Take precaution but don't stop the coach. You will have
double the rewards."

Again Maria and Angela raised a hue and cry. Abu Dawood consoled them saying,
"The coachman is not stupid. He'll reduce the speed himself as soon as he
reaches down."

The lower part of the valley appeared to be a large stream but for the sake of
the reward, the coachman, drawing a cross on his chest, forced the horse into
the water. However, the coach got off the road and the two horses in front
fell down after stumbling over some stones. With the sudden halt of the coach,
the coachman, who was sitting on the edge, bounced and fell on the horse's
back, rolling into the water. Seconds later, the four horses galloped in full
speed. The water was hardly deep. Without any further incident the horses
passed the low land onto the road.

Passing another cliff, the coach entered a wide plain. Sitting inside, Abu
Dawood was unaware that the coach was deprived of its driver. Thus, the horses
left the road and started running in the field. When the jolts became
unbearable, Abu Dawood started calling out to the coachman. Receiving no
response, he opened the door of the coach and glanced outside. The coachman
had disappeared. There were dense trees at some distance and the coach was
heading towards a collision course with some boulders in its path, which could
prove fatal for all of them.

The horsemen that were in-pursuit could hardly have reached in time to stop
the horses. Suddenly, a contingent of 30 to 40 horsemen appeared from the
forest in front and quickly reached close to the coach. Leading on a dark
horse was a masked man, whose white robe was fluttering in the air. On the
masked man's cue the rest of the horsemen raised their swords and while
raising the slogans of "Allahu Akbar", diverted their attention towards the
intercepting horsemen, who had changed their course after firing a few arrows
at the coach.

Seeing the coach without its driver, the masked man dashed his horse towards
it. He came close to one of the horses in front and after positioning his
horse near it, jumped on it. He was still trying to balance himself when one
of the coach's wheel broke after crashing into a rock and the coach overturned
to the other side. The reins snapped under feet of the horses, but the ones in
their mouth remained intact. The masked man extended his hand and first
grabbed one and then the other horse by the reins and tried to stop them with
all his strength. Dragging, stumbling and crashing into the rocks, the coach
finally came to a halt.

After a while when the masked man's comrades returned after chasing away the
intercepting horseman and arresting the distraught coachman, the masked man
pointed towards the groaning passengers near the broken coach and said,
"Unfortunately, I could not save them from getting injured. But I'm sure that
their lives have been saved. There is a suitcase inside the coach that belongs
to them. Do take it along."

Semi-conscious, Abu Dawood opened his eyes and sat up. After feeling his
bloody forehead, he looked at the masked man and his comrades and said in a
feeble tone, "Thank You." Then, he turned his attention towards his wife and
daughters.

"Maria! Rabia! Angela!" he said after shaking each one of them one after the
other.

Maria opened her eyes while groaning and closed them feeling fearful. After a
moment, she reopened her eyes and after crying, "Angela! My Angela", shook her
aggressively. Angela was bleeding from her lower lips and temple. After
moaning a few times, she started staring at her mother.
