
<!-- Chapter 6 -->

# Realization of Rabia's Dream



Badr Bin Mughira and Bashir Bin Hassan spent most part of Friday in Abu
Dawood's company. By talking to them Abu Dawood was satisfied that they would
be spending the night in this fort but what surprised him was the fact that
most of the soldiers in the fort had suddenly disappeared.

In the afternoon, when he was having lunch with Badr and Bashir, he said, "The
number of soldiers in the fort has reduced. I believe when you're here, there
should be proper security for you."

Bashir replied casually, "We never felt the need of soldiers to protect us."

"I don't doubt your bravery but there should even be a great number of troops
to guard this fort. Even if there is no danger of the Christians attacking
suddenly you should be cautious."

Badr Bin Mughira replied, "Don't worry. You will find enough troops to deal
with the danger should the need arise. My stay in this fort is merely
temporary. Tomorrow you will leave for Granada and I, God-willing, will be in
my forest and mountains."

"So, I believe that is why you asked your soldiers to move out a couple of days beforehand."

"Yes, they were useless here."

After this, various other topics came under discussion.

After Maghrib prayers, when these people were leaving the mosque, a horseman
galloped into the fort and stopped at door of the mosque. Seeing Badr Bin
Mughira he dismounted his horse and advanced swiftly towards him.

Without waiting for him, Badr Bin Mughira asked, "Hope everything is okay? You
looked worried."

The soldier replied, "The King's brother and a few officers of Granada's army
had come to see you and instead of waiting for you at your residence, they are
headed straight this way."

"How far are they from here?"

"They are about 8 to 10 miles away from here. They said that they would be
having dinner with you."

Badr Bin Mughira turned his attention to Bashir Bin Hassan and said, "Make
preparations for their boarding and lodging. I will go to receive them."

After a while when Badr Bin Mughira was galloping his horse out of the fort
Abu Dawood quickly paced toward his room. He strolled about his room in deep
thought. Then, opening the middle door and peeping into Maria's room he said,
"Maria, please come here." When Maria go up from her chair and entered the
room, he quickly shut the door.

Rabia and Angela started looking at each other. Rabia whispered, "Angela!
Father has been upset since morning."

Angela looked at Rabia with meaningful glances and replied, "His tension could
be because of tomorrow's arduous journey, but to me, you look more worried
than him. When we started from Castile to Granada, you were very happy but now
it seems that you like this deserted fort more than Granada."

"I love Granada. I am worried that Father might change his mind about going to
Granada tomorrow."

"You know that Father won't change his plan about going to Granada. The
Frontier Falcon has ordered a new coach for us from Granada. The reason for
your concern is something else. Rabia, you cannot hide what's in your heart
from me. Tell me honestly. Aren't you sad that the Frontier Falcon's habitat
would be very far from Granada?"

Rabia's face lit up with red and white waves of bashfulness. She could not
give any reply to Angela. Angela said again,"Rabia, we both are in the same
boat but when I take Bashir Bin Hassan's name you scold me and your condition
is such that by the mere imagination of departure from this place your face
dries up. Tell me honestly are you not fond of the Frontier Falcon?"

"Angela, now can I say that I hate him? But my world and his are totally
different. Badr Bin Mughira is the full moon of Andalus' sky and I am merely
one of those thousands of spectators who despite being in awe with its
brightness cannot even bring the idea in our hearts of bringing it down from
the sky for the adornment of our huts. Bashir Bin Hassan is also a shining
star of Andalus' sky and if your interest was limited to seeing him, then I
certainly would not have objected. But Angela! You want to tear this star of
the sky and put it in your lap while closing your eyes to the massive gulf
between you and him. I believe it is my duty to open your eyes to the
reality."

Angela's beautiful face faded in gloom. Bringing a dejected smile on her lips
she said, "Although I have misbehaved with you in the past, I feel that no one
is more sincere to me than you. But don't mind my saying but you are a poet. I
have not seen him in the sky but right here on the ground. I'm not ashamed to
say that I am fond of him. Even if I wouldn't be able to make him an adornment
of my lap, even then I would not hesitate to extend my hand towards him.
Rabia! When I saw him for the first time my heart bore witness that he is
mine. When I heard his voice I felt that my ears are familiar to his voice.
Until my eyes keep seeing him and my ears keep hearing him, my heart will
continue to say that he is mine. Rabia, tell me honestly! Don't you feel the
same way for Badr Bin Mughira...that he is a man and you a lady...?"

Rabia looked at her intently and said, "Don't you feel that you are a
Christian and he a Muslim and there is a war waging in Andalus between
Christianity and Islam?"

Angela replied, "I don't care about that. I will try to pull him towards me
and if I won't be able to bring him towards this side then going to his side
would not be a problem for me."

Rabia said, "Angela, assume that today itself a formal declaration of war
takes place between the kingdoms of Granada and Castile, then don't you think
all the doors would be closed between you and Bashir Bin Hassan?"

"Maybe for a brief period all the doors between us might close but the certain
outcome of the war would be that the Christians would capture all of Andalus
and the remaining walls of hatred between us would also collapse."

Rabia said, "Angela, do you think that a warrior like Bashir Bin Hassan would
live to romance with you after the defeat and destruction of his people?"

Grief spread over Angela's face. After being silent for a while she said,
"Rabia, what if circumstances compel him to go to Castile and he has to spend
his remaining days there? Then too, do you think these walls of hatred would
come between us?"

Rabia replied, "That depends on the circumstances that compel him to go to
Castile. Being a captive, he would not like to lead a life of disgrace by
being released on a plea made by a girl belonging to the enemy camp. However,
in the capacity of being victorious, he might accept wearing the chains of
your love. But how did you know that circumstances might compel him to go to
Castile?"

Trying to overcome her worries, Angela said, "The right place for a flower is
in the garden. Maybe he himself would not want to live for long in this
isolated place."

Rabia wanted to say something but the door of the next room opened and Abu
Dawood and Maria entered their room. Abu Dawood had two burning torches in his
hands. When he placed both the torches near the windows, Rabia innocently
said, "Father! As it is there is enough light from the chandeliers. What's the
use of burning these torches?"

Abu Dawood replied with uneasiness, "Rabia, do you despise having extra brightness?"

"No Father. But they would be puff-off by the wind. If you permit me, I will
close the windows?"

"No, it's good to have the windows open for fresh air." Then he turned towards
Maria and said, "If they get extinguished, then, light them up immediately. I
have more torches in my room. When these finish, replace them with new ones."
Saying this Abu Dawood left the room.



At the time of the isha prayers, Badr Bin Mughira, the King of Granada's
brother, Al-Zeghel and two renowned commanders of Granada's army, Moosa and
Al-Zeghairi, entered the fort. Fifteen soldiers and junior officers of Granada
also accompanied them.

Because the Moazzin was giving the Aathaan in the fort at the time they
entered, these people entered the mosque as soon as they dismounted their
horses. Bashir Bin Hassan and Abu Dawood welcomed them at the door of the
mosque. After enthusiastically greeting Bashir Bin Hassan, Al-Zeghel looked
towards Abu Dawood. Badr Bin Mughira said, "This is Abu Dawood. I had talked
about him to you along the way."

While shaking Abu Dawood's hand, Al-Zeghel said, "Badr has highlighted a
number of positive qualities you possess but the biggest one is that this
Frontier Falcon has great regard for you."

Smiling, Abu Dawood said, "My biggest merit is that I am a guest to an
immensely generous young man who has included praising his helpless guest
within the realm of his hospitality. The accident because of which I got to be
in the company of the Frontier Falcon has been the best incident that ever
happened to me. And that great man from Granada, whom I would have considered
my great fortune had I even seen him from a far distance, today, is in front
of me. If you don't consider it disrespectful, I would like to kiss this holy
hand that has had the honor of holding the swords of Moosa Bin Naseer and
Tariq Bin Ziyad after centuries."

Al-Zeghel was the kind of practical individual who felt very uncomfortable
with flattery. But Abu Dawood's style and tone of articulation touched him. He
didn't have the nerve to pull his hand back. Abu Dawood enthusiastically
placed a kiss on his hand along with a couple of flaming tears that would flow
out of Abu Dawood's eyes at the spur of a needy moment.

Abu Dawood expressed similar emotions after being introduced to Moosa and
Al-Zeghari. These people entered the mosque. Abu Dawood performed the duty of
leading the congregational prayers.

After prayers, when these people were having food in a room in the upper
story, Abu Dawood, in an attempt to impress them, was making optimal use of
his verbal and mental skills. Al-Zeghel, who had exceptional knowledge on a
number of subjects was quite impressed by Abu Dawood's depth of knowledge. And
when he made a mention of his underground activities whose objective was to
overthrow the high-handed government of Castile, Al-Zeghel said, "Thank God
you have selected a place for your activities where you are needed the most.
You would be able to do a lot for us in Granada. With whatever Badr Bin
Mughira has told me about you, I can conclude that you certainly know how to
motivate the youth. I will give a certain youth under your wing that you would
have to bring on the right path. And that would be no less than bringing back
the lost kingdom of Andalus. I am talking about my nephew and the Crown Prince
of Andalus, Abdullah. He's the biggest hallucinator, a coward, flattery lover
and is also a very hasty individual. He's happier with destruction than
construction. If you can mend his ways, it would be a great service to the
nation."

Trying to hide his gladness, Abu Dawood replied, "A mere wink from you is
enough for the youths of Granada to mend their ways. However, whatever task is
given to me, I will fulfill it with the best of my ability."

Al-Zeghel said, "Abu Abdullah needs a whip not a wink and I believe you
possess that whip. When are you going to Granada?"

"God-willing, we shall leave tomorrow."

"So, I will reach right after you have. My brother won't object a brilliant
person like you being his son's tutor. But don't disclose this to Abu Abdullah
that you have accepted this responsibility on my recommendation. He suspects
everything I do."

"Don't worry about that."

After this Al-Zeghel, Moosa and Al-Zaghairi asked Abu Dawood a number of
questions about the Castilian army's preparedness and instead of giving them
the correct answers, he replied with answers that would please them.

By midnight, when they were planning to get up, sounds of military drums were
heard all around the fort and everyone started looking at each other
anxiously. With glances demanding answers, Al-Zeghel looked at Badr Bin
Mughira and the glances of the rest of the people also focused on his face.

Badr Bin Mughira's face was free from any anxiety and worry. "Don't worry", he
said. While getting up calmly, he said, "Let me find out right away." Bashir
also got up but Badr Bin Mughira said, "Why don't you stay with the guests. I
will be right back."

When Badr Bin Mughira reached the door, one of his guards came running in. He
said breathlessly, "The Christians have attacked."

Hearing this, everyone drew their swords out but Badr Bin Mughira turned his
attention towards them and said, "The Christians have not made such a blunder
in the past 20 years. Please sit and take it easy. During the night, no matter
how big an army they have, they won't be able to come near the fort. In my
entire life, I have not been so well prepared for a surprise attack as I am
for this one."

Abu Dawood said, "But I have not seen more than 20 to 25 soldiers in the fort today."

"The protection of this fort is done far away from its four walls. Fortunately,
more than half of my troops are here. I will be right back."

Moosa said, "I will come with you."

Badr Bin Mughira replied, "I am afraid that you might become a target of an
arrow of one of my soldiers. I too might not go out to lead the fight. I
merely want to give a few instructions to the guards of the fort."

A satisfied Al-Zeghel replied, "So, you were expecting this attack?"

Abu Dawood was stunned by this question and looked towards Badr. Badr replied,
"Nature had given me a sign and thank God we didn't take this as an illusion."

Bashir Bin Hassan insisted on coming along, but Badr stopped him. He said,
"The only reason my soldiers can stand in the raining arrows is because you
can treat the injured. Stay here and prepare first aid for the injured."

Badr Bin Mughira went out. He returned after an hour and said, "If you want,
you can relax and go to bed. The Christians are trying to flee after receiving
an unprecedented welcome but it would be a miracle if even ten of them
escaped. I would not stop anyone of you from being part of this fabulous
victory but it would not be appropriate to go out before dawn. In the light of
the morning you could assist my comrades in gathering the prisoners and aiming
arrows at the ones trying to flee."

Saying this, he moved his attention to Abu Dawood and said, "Please go to your
room and close the windows that open to the outside or else extinguish the
lights and instruct your children not to stand near the windows. I have been
informed by the guards that a strayed group of attackers has been spotted in
the vicinity of the fort. Although the fort is not under any threat from these
people, it's very likely that one of them could take an aim towards a lit
area."

"I was not expecting the girls to make such a mistake." Saying this Abu Dawood
ran out of the room.

Al-Zeghel laughed and said, "Seldom does a good scholar prove to be a good warrior."



After covering a distance, Abu Dawood started to ponder and his speed slowed
down. Badr Bin Mughira's statements showed that the destruction of his
attackers was imperative. Therefore, it would not have made any difference if
there was light or not. Another thought that came to his mind was if his
servant, whom he had sent as his emissary to the Governor of the Border was
with the attackers. Although the possibility of this was less but nonetheless
it was bothersome. He thought to himself, "What if the general of the
attackers is arrested and confesses the whole thing to Badr Bin Mughira?" But
at this stage he would console himself by saying that since he was Ferdinand's
special person, the Governor would have certainly complied with the orders of
Ferdinand and wouldn't have revealed the secret to any of the army officers.

With every step, he would have all kinds of fears and would fight-off each one
of them till he reached near his room when a new thought created shivers in
his body. He thought, "Is it possible that the Governor of the Border himself
would have lead the army for the sake of fame and fortune? And on being
arrested would say in the presence of Badr Bin Mughira and Al-Zeghel that it
is not him but Abu Dawood who is their main criminal who invited him to attack
this fort."

As he was thinking with extreme anguish about various avenues to defend
himself, he heard a slight scream. He quickly opened the door and entered his
room. Another scream was heard from the adjacent room and the sound of someone
falling down was heard. Within this time he had entered the rear room. For a
moment his blood froze. Angela and Maria lay unconscious on the floor.

An arrow was pierced in Angela's chest. Rabia stood by her in a state of
shock. Abu Dawood, shaken by the events, looked at Rabia who appeared
petrified. She signaled towards the windows. Abu Dawood picked up and threw
the torches to a side and closed the windows. Then, he moved his attention to
Angela and Maria. "Maria! Angela!" he said while shaking each of them one
after the other.

Angela opened her eyes groaning but Maria remained unconscious.

"Father! Call the physician. Angela is injured and mother has fainted because
of a shock. Angela was passing by the window and someone fired an arrow.
Please hurry up. Angela is bleeding."

Abu Dawood got up and went out running.



After a while Abu Dawood entered the room with Badr Bin Mughira and Bashir Bin
Hassan. Bashir took a cursory glance at Angela and Maria, then, carried each
one of them to their beds, one after the other. In the meantime, a servant
came carrying his bag of medicines. Bashir took out a bottle after opening the
bag and after sprinkling a few drops over his handkerchief, gave it to Abu
Dawood and said, "Please make your wife sniff this medicine. She will gain
consciousness immediately."

Then he moved his attention towards Angela. She was staring at him with wide
eyes. After carefully examining her wound, he extended his hand towards the
arrow. Angela screamed after grabbing his hand with both her hands and said,
"No! No!"

Bashir Bin Hassan said, "Look! The more we delay removing the arrow, the more
painful it will get. Don't be scared. Don't hold my hand or else I will have
to give you some medicine to make you unconscious."

Bashir Bin Hassan signaled to his servant and Badr Bin Mughira. Angela yelled
and said, "No. No. Don't hold my hands and feet. I won't do anything."

Bashir said, "I initially thought that you were a brave girl. Just close your
eyes for a few moments...Don't worry."

But Angela kept looking at him with glances filled with compliancy, love and
idolization. This time when Bashir Bin Hassan stretched his hand towards the
arrow, she did not display any resistance. She constricted her lips and after
a slight shiver, her hand subconsciously moved towards the wound but with
merely a small jerk of Bashir's hand, the arrow came out of the wound. Bashir
Bin Hassan took a sigh of relief and said, "The wound is not that deep.
God-willing, you will be good in no time."

During this time, Maria had gained consciousness. For a moment she opened her
eyes and then closed them again. Then, she opened them again and got up from
her bed screaming, "My daughter! My Angela!" and ran towards her bed. "Angela,
are you alright?" Will my daughter live? Tell me! For God's sake, tell me!"
Partly distraught, she was saying this while holding and shaking Bashir's arm.
Bashir said, "Look! Please let me dress the wound. This way you are only
aggravating her pain."

Leaving Bashir Bin Hassan, she moved her attention towards Badr Bin Mughira,
"For God's sake, save my daughter's life."

Abu Dawood stepped forward, grabbed her by the arm and while forcing her onto
the bed said, "Maria don't be crazy. Be patient. Angela will get well in no
time. It's a small wound."

Maria yelled and said, "You are stone-hearted. Whether Angela lives or dies
what do you care. Only Granada..."

Maria stopped after uttering "Granada". For a moment Abu Dawood felt short of
a judgment being passed against him that was delayed. He was now looking at
his wife as if he was pleading for mercy. But her looks showed that she would
no longer shed light on this dangerous topic. Therefore, Abu Dawood said
loudly, "Yes! Yes! I am concerned about Granada. It is a duty of every Muslim
to fight such barbarians who won't even hesitate to fire arrows at girls. And
my going to Granada has nothing to do with Angela being wounded. The least you
should know is that during an external attack when a room is well-lit, the
windows should not be open. You should have at least stopped Angela from
standing by the window. And Rabia you are a sensible girl. You should have
stopped Angela from doing so."

Rabia said in a depressed voice, "Father! Angela was talking to me. She got
off from my bed and was going toward hers when she got struck by an arrow
coming through the window."

Abu Dawood's entire Machiavellian skills had amassed in his eyes. Maria would
often be subdued by that typical frightening sparkle in Abu Dawood's eyes. She
was silent but this was not an ordinary incident. Her shocked eyes were saying
that this matter has not come to an end. I'm only waiting for the ground to
clear. With the amount of engrossment Bashir Bin Hassan was treating Angela,
Abu Dawood was looking at his wife with far more gravity.

In the midst of all of this, Badr Bin Mughira looked at Rabia a few times. She
still stood by Angela's bed in a state of shock. More than Angela being
injured what impressed her was that despite a surprise attack by the enemy
neither Badr's nor Bashir's face displayed any sign of worry or anxiety. She
said in a low tone, "Looks like this fort has come within striking range of
the enemy."

Badr, too, was quite desperate to say something to her. Rabia's voice
attracted his attention and he said in a consoling tone, "Looks like an enemy
soldier strayed here taking advantage of the darkness of the night and knowing
his death was certain, fired an arrow this way. If he has not been killed as
yet, he would certainly be arrested. A few moments ago I was informed that a
group of the enemy's riders had been spotted near the fort. It's possible that
he is one of them. I'm extremely sorry about your sister getting wounded. Were
it not for a bit of carelessness from my side, I would have had your windows
closed. Then, maybe, this would not have happened. Please sit down. Don't
worry. Your sister will soon recover."

Rabia moved back a few step backwards and sat on her bed. Badr turned his
attention to Bashir and said, "Let me go and comfort the guests."

Bashir said, "I'm almost done too. Now all that needs to be done is to give
her the medicine."



While leaving the room Badr Bin Mughira stopped near Rabia's bed and
whispered, "Today victory is the realization of a chaste lady's dream. If you
grant permission, I will reveal her name in front of the King's brother."

First, Rabia nervously looked from one end of the room to the other where her
parents stood. Then, with pleading glances looked at Badr Bin Mughira and said
in a suffocated tone, "No, no. For God's sake no." Then she started looking at
her Father who was oblivious to the world around him, staring at Maria like a
snake gazing at its prey.

Badr said, "Then I would have to lie in front of Al-Zeghel. I would have to
give him some other reason for such elaborate preparations for this
unprecedented attack."

Mustering courage within herself, she raised her eyes and uttered these words
involuntarily, "My dream was only for you."

With this little phrase, Rabia was able to describe that colorful fable which
the daughters of Eve had been making the sons of Adam hear since the beginning
of time. She had not anticipated the gravity of her words as she uttered them
but her heart's pleasant and beautiful beats had immediately informed her that
she had taken a massive leap. Her eyes lowered and her face blushed with
shyness.

Badr had left but she felt that he was still there staring at her and not only
he but everything in the room was staring at her. She got up with a shrill and
shiver in her body, came and stood by Angela's bed.

When Bashir Bin Hassan poured out the medicine in a cup, she said, "Here...I
will give it to her."

As Bashir Bin Hassan and his servant were leaving the room, Abu Dawood said,"
Wait! I am also coming along with you."

Bashir said, "Please take rest."

"Not at all. It's going to be morning soon and he said that he will attack
early in the morning. Although my training is not that of a soldier, a person
like me seldom gets a chance to fight under the leadership of the Frontier
Falcon. If I can't make proper use of a sword or lance, at least I would be
able to assist you in counting the prisoners."

Bashir said, "I think there is still time for them to leave. In the meantime,
you can spend time with your children. I will call you when the time comes."

"In the time being, I will sit in the company of Al-Zeghel. It's not everyday
you get a chance to sit in such company."

Actually Abu Dawood was keener in being away from his wife's fiery glances
than to sit in Al-Zeghel's company. He was sure that she was waiting for the
room to be free, after which a perpetual rain of arrows in Castile's commonly
understood language would have been initiated. Maria spread out a web with her
glare but when he eventually got up to leave, she said, "You don't even have
the least concern for Angela. She is groaning with pain and you want to go out
for a good time."

Angela too was quite familiar with her mother's nature. She had already seen
the initial waves of a storm in her eyes. She said, "Father, you carry on. I'm
perfectly alright."

Abu Dawood took a sigh of relief and said, "Rabia dear, please lock both the
rooms from the inside."

Bashir Bin Hassan said, "There is no need to lock the door. There are enough
soldiers on guard in the verandah. I will instruct them just in case you need
anything. But do close the windows and rest assured that the attackers will
not reach near the fort. They have already been stopped far from here."

When Abu Dawood left, Maria glared at Rabia are like a hungry wolf. Angela
quickly analyzed the moment's delicate situation and groaned, "Rabia, please
massage my head. It's aching."

When Rabia got up and sat by her, Maria also got up and came near Angela's
bed. She started to say, "My daughter! Where does it ache you?" Then, she got
a hold of Rabia's arm, jolted it and said, "You go from here."

Angela said, "No, no, mother! Rabia reads a supplication that relieves my headaches."

Motherhood immediately laid its arms down. Maria pleaded, "Rabia dear. Your
supplication is effective. Please pray that her wound heals up. I will never
forget your favor."

Rabia would melt with such words. She said, "Mother, do you think praying for
Angela is a favor? Isn't Angela my sister?"

"Rabia, you are an angel. Okay, sit down next to your sister", she said while
moving aside.

Angela said, "Mother, take some rest."

"I won't be able to rest till you recover."

"No, mother. You go. I'm perfectly fine."

Maria said, "I know you want to start some never ending tale with your sister."

Rabia said, "Mother, you go and sleep. They were saying that this fort is
completely secure."

Maria got up and while sitting on her bed said, "I hope they're compelled to
go back or else we would have to travel with Angela in this condition."

Rabia said, "They were saying maybe none of them would be able to go back alive."

Maria depressingly said, "Who said that?"

"The Frontier Falcon said that while leaving the room so that you feel at ease."

After a while when she dozed off, Angela whispered, "Rabia, are you certain
that this fort won't be captured?"

Rabia said, "I am sure."

"Rabia, maybe we will be staying here for a few more days."

"Until you're not fit to travel, we'll have to stay here."

To check whether her mother was awake or asleep, Angela softly called out to
her and receiving no reply, took Rabia's hand and placed it in her's and said,
"I just made up the excuse of a headache."

Rabia said, "I know."

"What do you know?"

"You wanted to save me from mother's wrath."

"Thank God Father went out of the room or else Mother would have raised hell."

Rabia said, "You must be in pain because of the wound."

"No, there can be no pain where his hands have touched a wound. Tell me
honestly, aren't you glad that our trip would be postponed?"

She replied, "I'm really sorry about your injury."

"Wasn't it your life's biggest wish that tomorrow's trip be postponed?"

"That's absurd. How could I wish for you to be injured?"

Angela thought for a while and said, "Rabia, when he used to come for your
treatment I used to think that you're grabbing away my right. Honestly
speaking, I have no regret of being injured. Today he was very upset and I
would not have wished for more that he be upset for my sake. But the sad part
is that his worry would fade as my wound starts to heal."

"I believe his distress might change into interest."

"But you used to say that his way and mine are totally different."

"Next time I won't say that."

"Rabia, I was watching you when your falcon was whispering something to you and
your glances were buried in the ground. Your face was blushing with shyness."

"So, even in this condition, you were looking at me?"

"Yes! So, what was he saying?"

"Nothing. He was saying that the fort is secure."

"No, he was saying something else. My ears are very sharp. Tell me, what he was saying."

"Tell me."

He was saying that 'Thank God that you will have to stay here a few more days.'

"You liar!" Angela said and burst into a laughter.



Al-Zeghel, Moosa and Al-Zeghairi were amazed at Badr Bin Mughira's
preparedness after seeing the map of the battlefield in the light of the
morning. Very few of the attackers were able to escape with their lives. Badr
Bin Mughira's archers had encircled the attackers in the valleys and ditches.
When the Christian attackers would muster courage and try to escape a volley
of arrows from one valley and enter another, they would take a sigh of relief
for a while only to find a greater number of arrows raining on them. At dawn,
as Badr Bin Mughira and his guests mounted their horses and galloped out of
the fort, the sound of the fort's drum was raised. Then, within moments
several drums could be heard. Then, sounds of galloping horses could be heard
from the forests in the vicinity and in no time some 3,000 horsemen gathered
at the gate of the fort.

Al-Zeghel said, "Had I believed in magic, I would have said that you're the
greatest magician. Where did this army come from?"

"These riders were hiding in secure places during the night. They did not take
part in last night's battle. Their work begins today. My archers have besieged
the flocks of attackers at various locations and these lancers will gather
them in one location."

By afternoon Badr Bin Mughira's men had already huddled the enemy's remaining
fighters into a valley.

Even Abu Dawood had demonstrated his fighting skills wearing an armor and
aventail. What pleased him most was that the general of the attackers had been
killed and the Governor of the Border had not taken part in the assault. But
there was one thing that still bothered him and to overcome that distress he
was running here and there and during this exercise, he had already condemned
three men of the enemy to death.

When long queues of the prisoners were formed, he had a good look at each man
carefully and then mounted his horse and became part of a group of lancers.

Passing through a valley's dense forest, he suddenly saw some infantry
soldiers bringing a group of prisoners. He separated himself from his group
and galloped his horse towards them. After having a quick look at about 15 to
20 prisoners, his glance focused on one of them and he slid back in the
aventail of his helmet. This prisoner was his coachman. The soldiers stopped
as he gestured with his hand to do so. He said to one of the youths who
appeared to be their officer, "Did you arrest him while he was with the
enemy's army?"

"Yes!" he answered. "He was trying to hide himself by climbing on top of a tree."

"He is so treacherous." Saying this he got off his horse. He moved towards the
coachman after leaving the reins of his horse with a soldier. He came close to
the coachman and said loudly, "I never would have thought that my own servant
would be so disloyal and treacherous. Tell me, didn't you direct the enemy
forces to this fort? You were wounded and they gave you shelter in their fort,
they gave you treatment and this is how you repay their favors? Now how will
you face them? You have also embarrassed me."

The coachman, who was not able to see his face because of the aventail, was
astounded when he recognized his voice. This was his master's voice but the
words were of someone else. At once, it occurred to him that there might be
some wisdom behind this. He said fearfully, "Master, you know that I am
innocent. I..."

He wanted to say something more but suddenly Abu Dawood swung his sword with
full force and excised his head from the body.

The young officer got hold of his arm and while jolting him said, "Who are
you? It's against our rules to execute prisoners. You have to answer for this
in front of the Frontier Falcon."

Abu Dawood replied comfortably, "Don't worry. I will be able to answer for
this." Saying this he removed his aventail and said, "Maybe you might
recognize me."

The young officer said, "I do recognize you. You are our leader's guest. I
also believe that you have not executed this prisoner without a logical reason
but at the moment he was a prisoner of war."

Abu Dawood said, "This person was my servant for the past 20 years. I had
escaped from Castile in very difficult circumstances. They were pursuing us
when the Frontier Falcon rescued us. He too was a guest along with us for a
few days. After I gave him permission to leave for his home, he guided the
Christian forces till here. The maximum he might have received after having me
captured would have been a few dirhams. But, God forbid, had you not been
prepared, then, even the life of the last hope of Muslims in Andalus would
have been in danger. If he were a Christian, I certainly would not have killed
him but he was a Muslim. There is not a law in the world that would show mercy
for such an individual. Tell me, if anyone of you were in my place, what would
you have done?"

The young officer was left speechless and said, "Forgive me. I didn't know
that he was a Muslim. No doubt this was the right punishment for such a
person."

Abu Dawood reached Badr Bin Mughira before the soldiers and narrated the tale
of his servant's execution in a manner that only but impressed him. However,
when Bashir Bin Hassan got to know about the incident he appeared perplexed
for a while. However, Abu Dawood opened the topic with him and cleared all his
doubts.



Badr Bin Mughira gathered all the prisoners in a narrow valley leaving a guard
of his archers around them. Leaving a group of horsemen who were busy in
gathering the horses of the prisoners and the injured, he instructed the rest
of the horsemen to prepare for a counter strike.

After dhuhr prayers, he said to Al-Zeghel, "I have some unfinished business to
take care of. Please go ahead and take some rest in the fort. I will be at
your service as soon as I'm done. Your personality is too great to lead such a
small mission. So, I don't want to bother you. Secondly, Granada has not
formally declared war against Castile as yet. I want you to have the maximum
time for preparation and for the enemy to believe that their war is directly
with us."

Al-Zeghel said, "Where do you want to attack?"

Badr replied, "I don't have any particular place in mind. The enemy thought
that we were asleep. But we have convinced them that we are awake. In this
mission, there would be more traveling than fighting."

Al-Zeghel took off his turban and robe and handing them to a soldier, he said,
"I need a uniform of a soldier. We all will go with you. Today you are our
general. That day is near when you will hold Granada's flag but today I'll
hold the flag of the Frontier Falcon. Don't worry Badr, I'm not only good at
giving orders, I'm also good at taking orders."

Moosa and Al-Zaghairi, along with their comrades, followed Al-Zeghel's example
and changed into Badr's soldiers' uniform, ready to join the mission.

After a while, Badr Bin Mughira rode out of the fort with 3,000 horsemen
wearing his distinct white robe and turban.

By evening, citizens of Ferdinand's border cities and villages were facing the
Frontier Falcon's wild assault instead of showering petals on their victorious
soldiers.

The next morning, a while after sunrise, this army returned back to the valley
of the falcons after ravaging a huge region of the border. Some horsemen had
flocks of livestock in front of them while some had loaded war booty on their
horses and this now army appeared to be like a huge caravan of merchants.

On reaching his residence, Badr Bin Mughira announced that one-fifth of the
war booty would be contributed to the treasury of Granada. Later, he organized
a fresh group of 500 horsemen under the command of a youth to march towards
the border fort. He ordered them to drive the prisoners across the border and
sent a special envoy to Bashir Bin Hassan with a message saying, "Those
injured enemies incapable of walking should be given horses and escorted to
the other side of the border. And those who are severely injured should be
given treatment. I shall remain here for a few days."

After this, when Badr Bin Mughira was discussing future strategies with
Al-Zeghel, Moosa, Al-Zaghairi then Al-Zeghel said, "Ferdinand won't delay in
declaring war. Had he captured the fort, war would have started. We shouldn't
give him more time to prepare. After hearing the news of your victory, the
people of Granada's morale would be boosted tremendously. I plan to give the
news of this great victory of yours to the people of Granada myself. After
that I want you to come to Granada. For years, the people of Granada have
never given a reception to a victorious warrior who was one of them and
Granada's poets, disappointed by the living, glorify those soldiers that sleep
in graves. After seeing you they will surely believe that nature has sent them
a warrior capable of changing the direction of the flood of events. And after
witnessing the enthusiasm of the people, my brother will immediately declare
war. As it is he's all ready to engage with all he has. But he fears that the
people won't support him."

Badr Bin Mughira said, "After our previous meeting, I consider myself an
ordinary soldier of the Granada's army. The sole purpose of a continuous war
at this front was to engage Ferdinand's attention towards us till the people
of Granada wake up from their deep sleep. But now I don't see that day is far
when he will attack Granada with all his might. On the day of their wedding,
the Queen of Aragon and the King of Castile swore not to rest till they
conquered Granada and to this day they are making preparations. The only way
to save Granada is to crush their morale permanently."

Al-Zeghel said, "The fact is that we have decided to capture Al-Sakhra and
that is why I had come here to take you along with us for that mission."

Badr said, "The soldiers of my army are at your service. I'm ready to come
along with you right away."

Al-Zeghel said, "No, your soldiers need to be at this front. Meanwhile,
handover the command of your troops to a trustworthy person and come to
Granada. Maybe Abul Hassan might be ready to jump into the war arena a day or
two after your arrival itself."

Moosa said, "I think if he comes to Granada with a few of his contingents it
would have a grand impact on the people and I also want to give the command of
the Granada's storm brigades in his hands during the initial stages of the
war. The morale of the people will take a tremendous boost because of his
presence. In return, we'll send some of our troops to defend this side of the
border."

Badr said, "Our mission is to be victorious against the enemy and I will go to
every front where I'm needed. At the moment, I am confident that even if I
take 2,000 troops from here, even then this entrenchment won't be weakened.
However, I do agree with your proposal of not reducing the number of our
troops here. If we were to remove a thousand experienced troops from here,
then a similar number should be inducted and sent from Granada. This way this
area will serve as a defense post and by continuing our skirmishes with them
on the border we will be able to divide Ferdinand's attention to more than one
front."

Al-Zaghairi enquired, "Are you convinced that after this fresh defeat he would
not want to capture this area before Granada?"

Badr Bin Mughira replied, "I am sure that past experiences have made him very
far sighted. He's now convinced that, God forbid, if he were to capture the
rest of Andalus even then he would have to be at loggerheads with these cliffs
for years to come. However, if he were to take such a decision, it would be a
good omen for the people of Andalus. We will be able to engage his entire
force for atleast 10 years and if the people of Granada are hell bent on
committing suicide then by that time they would at least wake up."

Al-Zaghairi asked, "If you don't mind my asking, what is the strength of your troops."

Badr Bin Mughira replied, "It is double the amount of what you have witnessed
so far."

Moosa said, "Let's assume that circumstances change drastically and you're
compelled to stay more in Granada than here, then, do you have anyone from
among your commanders who could take-up your position and deal with the enemy
like you dealt during that unprecedented attack? I mean, do you have anyone
who can be your replacement without your troops feeling your absence?"

"There is no doubt that my soldiers revere me but with the Grace of God I have
ten such people who can take my position."

Al-Zeghel said, "In your opinion who is the best among them?"

"My deputy Mansoor Bin Ahmed."

"Isn't Mansoor Bin Ahmed that young man who was with you riding a dark horse?"

"No, he's not here at the moment. He's gone to Cordova."

"Cordova? Is he a citizen of Cordova?"

"No, he's a citizen of Seville but he has gone there on a tour."

"On a tour?"

"To induct new recruits."

"And how did he reach here from Seville?"

"Just like the way the rest of the soldiers got here. Bashir Bin Hassan had
brought him here."

The next day Al-Zeghel and his comrades left after taking a commitment from
Badr Bin Mughira that he would come to Granada within a week's time along with
a thousand of his troops.
