
# Loja's New Ruler

Loja's new ruler, Abu Dawood, was sitting in his palace looking at some
official papers. His door-keeper entered the room and stood silently for a
while. After a few minutes, when Abu Dawood did not pay heed to him, the
door-keeper reluctantly said, "John Michael is waiting for you in the meeting
room. If you command, I can bring him here."

"John Michael!", Abu Dawood stood up and said. "No, I will meet him there. I
hope he was not waiting for long."

"He has just arrived."

Abu Dawood exited the room, walked a few steps and entered into a spacious
room. A middle-aged, but, well-built man saw him and got up from his chair.
Abu Dawood shook his hand and sat on a chair beside him.

Abu Dawood took a good look at John Michael and then said, "If I'm not
mistaken, you were at the front."

John Michael replied, "Yes, but right now I'm coming from Castile. The King
had called me there for advice on some issues."

"So, you are going to take my position in Loja?"

While handing over a communiqué to Abu Dawood, John Michael said, "Here are
the King's orders. I have come here for the sake of implementing his command,
otherwise, it is quite painful for a soldier to be away from the battlefield
at such a critical time."

Abu Dawood opened the communiqué and after giving it a quick look, said, "I am
glad that he has sent an experienced person like you here. I will leave for
Castile tomorrow itself."

"But I wanted to take a lot of guidance from you."

Abu Dawood said, "My first and last instruction is to protect Loja at all cost
from the enemy."

"You can trust me for that. There will be another five thousand troops here by tomorrow."

"The only thing I will say after this is that the enemy's latest victory has
somewhat pumped enthusiasm into the local Muslims. I have arrested the dangerous
men. There is no fear of a revolt now. A group of elders of Muslims is working
to calm their enthusiasm. Please cooperate with them. Make sure they don't face
any financial difficulties. I will make sure you meet them before I leave."

John Michael said, "How long will you stay out-of-station?"

"That depends on the circumstances. If all the clergymen that have been invited
to Castile reach there, then, I will return early. Otherwise, I will take some
time."

"I think about five hundred clergymen have already reached there from Cordova,
Seville and other cites."

"So my work will finish quickly over here. But then I will have to go to other
cities after that. Okay, now tell me what is the condition of the war?"

"The condition of the war is deteriorating by the day. The people of Granada
have taken a lot of territory away from us. After Granada's defeat, we were not
able to fight properly."

Abu Dawood said, "This is the last sight of a setting sun."

"But the people of Granada are taking this to be the light of a rising sun. Our
army is very disturbed by a rumor."

"What is that?"

"The people think that the Frontier Falcon is no other person but Badr bin
Mughira. Some of the prisoners of our army who have escaped, have confirmed
this. The King is also of the same view. It could be possible that Abu Abdullah
has not killed him."

Abu Dawood said, "If Abu Abdullah is not stupid then this could have been
possible."

"A while ago, I also thought that Abu Abdullah is a person with an erratic
disposition, but his latest victories compelled me to change my opinion about
him."

Abu Dawood said, "All I know is that Granada is destined to be destroyed at his
hands. Insanity has various forms. At one time his insanity was such that it
made him revolt against his father and uncle, clearing that way upto the four
walls of Granada. Now there is a change in his insanity. With time, this madness
with also wither away. You will be hearing strange and incredible news coming
out of Granada for a while."

John Michael said, "The King has already decided to attack Granada with all his
might. He thinks if your plan works out, then, the siege of Granada will not
last long. May I know what have you planned? Do you intend to send some
delegation of theologians of Andalus to Granada? Do you want to negotiate a
compromise with Abu Abdullah?"

"All I can tell you is that the biggest mission of my life is to hoist Emperor
Ferdinand's flag over Al-Hamra. We have made a lot of mistakes before this.
There won't be any mistake now. The wind can only bring down those walls whose
foundations have become hollow. The mission that I have planned for Granada will
destroy their defensive strength so much that your army would not have to face
any difficulty. Therefore, it would be better if you don't ask me the details
now. Now, the first thing I need to do is find you an accommodation and to
arrange a meeting with those people who can give you useful advice in my
absence. One part of the palace is lying completely vacant. My family will stay
here. However, few more rooms can be emptied if you need."

John Michael said, "I am a soldier. Apart from that, I am all alone. My needs
are limited. A small house is enough for my needs. I don't think it would be
appropriate to bother your children."

Abu Dawood said, "The right side of the palace is completely empty. Please do
have a look. I think it will be enough for you."

John Michael had dinner at Abu Dawood's place. Apart from a few of the city's
nobles, the women belonging to the elite were also present at this feast. Rabia
was absent on the pretext of being sick. Angela also made an excuse of a
headache but her excuse did not work in front of her mother. Angela's
disposition had changed considerably after leaving Granada. Like Rabia, she too
did not want to take part in any assembly. These stepsisters had become soul
mates to each other. They looked forward for solitary moments so that they could
talk to each other. Maria knew that her daughter was very impressed by Rabia's
habits and views. She had the complain that even on a Sunday, Angela would
prefer to stay home with Rabia instead of going to church for worship. Like
Rabia, she did not like meeting anyone. Maria would curse Rabia immensely
whenever she got angry and would admonish Angela to stay away from her but
Angela knew how to play on her mother's weakness. She would lie down and refuse
to eat and drink on the pretext of being ill. Maria would try to please her in
vain and then would eventually yell out, "Rabia! Rabia! I know she won't touch
her food until you tell her to. You have enchanted her. She'll sleep without
eating. She has already become as thin as a needle. She thinks I'm her enemy.
Rabia! What have I said to you after all? Doesn't a stepmother have the right to
say even that much?"

Maria would give up and go to her room and then after a while a maid would come
and inform her that both the sisters were having their food. 

A few days would pass peacefully after such incidents. Maria tried to listen
into the conversation of Rabia and Angela several times but Angela had learned
to speak Arabic from her stepsister and this was the language that the Christian
government of Andalus had declared as anti-government. She would complain to Abu
Dawood, who would merely tell her that Angela would perform vital functions for
the Sultanate after she learns the Arabic language. "When a weak moment arrives,
we will use such girls to spread anarchy in the ranks of the enemy."

Today when Maria asked Angela to attend the dinner, then, without uttering a
word she went to Rabia and said, "Rabia! I don't want to go there. Their
conversation would be unbearable for me."

Rabia said, "Angela! There is no choice. That time has not arrived when we can
do anything we want. You need to go so that maybe we will get to know something
new."

When Angela left the room, Maria was standing at the door. She said, "Angela,
for God's sake, please stop making my life miserable. John Michael is a very
high ranking person. Ladies of Hispania's elite consider it a matter of prestige
to talk to John Michael. You are of age now and I'm concerned for your future.
Such opportunities do not recur in life. John Michael's wife is dead. Today you
will see how desperate the ladies of Loja are to get his attention."

Angela replied furiously, "Mother dear! I will never go in front of him if you
talk like that."

Maria said hopefully, "Angela! You are a wise person. I will not force you to
take any decision but it is your duty to show respect to a guest. He is the
King's knight and a protector of the cross."

"Mother dear! I will only go there to comply to your orders, otherwise, I have
no interest in him. I hate these savages who are stained with the blood of the
honor of innocent girls."

"Rabia has made you hate your religion."

Angela replied, "If a religion allows the killing of children, slaughtering the
innocent and dishonoring women publicly, then, I despise even the name of such a
religion."

Maria said a bit remorsefully, "Angela! John Michael will be the governor of
this city in your father's absence. I think we will be able to impress him more
if we get to know him. Now get ready. The guests are going to arrive."

After dinner, when the guests were leaving, Angela surreptitiously left the room
and taking quick steps, entered into Rabia's room. She closed the door and said
in a trembling voice, "Rabia! I am scared of him. He was looking at me like a
hungry wolf. I had to sit next to him against my wishes. He was drunk and now he
is going to stay in this very palace. Rabia! Rabia!! I am scared. He was saying
that the army of Granada has captured a fort thirty miles from here. Alas! I
wish we could go there."

Rabia consoled her and said, "Angela! God is aware of our helplessness. He will
help us."

Someone knocked at the door. Angela opened the door in a state of shock. Maria
quickly entered inside and said, "Angela! Don't embarrass us. You should not
have run away before the guests left. I had to make an excuse that you could not
be there because you had a headache. The rest of the guests have left but John
Michael is insisting to come and enquire about your well-being. Now for God's
sake, go to your room. I'll bring him there."

Angela replied, "He is drunk. I will not meet him."

"He will take it as an insult."

"But I care more about my dignity."

The argument carried on for a while between the mother and daughter. In the
meantime, Abu Dawood entered the room. 

Maria looked at her husband and said, "Angela will not listen to anyone but
Rabia."

Abu Dawood sat on a chair without giving any attention to Maria. Maria repeated
herself, "Angela is not willing to go to her room. He will think that she
purposely insulted him."

Abu Dawood said remorsefully, "A drunkard should not be so sensitive. I have
left him in his room. Maria, I think I made a mistake by allowing him to stay at
the palace. Alas! I wish I could take you all along. He wouldn't dare misbehave
with you in my absence, but still, keep the girls away from his sight. When he's
drunk, he is not the same person whom I had granted permission to stay in one
section of my home."

Maria said, "I don't think that the Emperor Ferdinand's knight would be so low
that he would..."

Abu Dawood cut her short and said, "However, there is no harm in being
cautious."

Appearing speechless, Maria said, "You already know that Angela doesn't even
talk to anyone without Rabia's permission. Rabia will not permit Angela to talk
to a Christian even if he's an angel. So, there's no use talking to me about it.
Whatever you want to say, say it to Rabia."

Rabia said, "Mother! I will do my duty even if father dear doesn't ask me to."

"So you think I'm Angela's enemy?"

"I didn't say that."

"You want to keep Angela away from the people of her own faith."

"I want to keep her away from evil eyes. Angela is my sister."

"You have cast a spell on her. You preach her your religion. You have taught her
to speak Arabic. You have sowed seeds of hatred in the heart of my innocent
daughter against me. You are my enemy. You..."

Angela screamed and said, "Mother! For God's sake, don't talk like that. If
Rabia starts hating me because of you, then, I will die. I will go to the
highest tower of this palace and jump."

Angela had touched the sensitive cord of motherhood. Maria looked at her
daughter with fear. She was crying. Maria's lips were sealed once she saw tears
shine out of her daughter's eyes and she left the room without saying anything.

Abu Dawood said while getting up, "Rabia! I am leaving Angela in your custody.
Don't worry about what Maria says."

The clergymen and elders, who were invited by Abu Dawood from far-flung cities,
had gathered in a spacious chamber of Castile's royal palace. Abu Dawood had met
most of them separately before the meeting. Making a speech in front of the
gathering, Abu Dawood said:

"Religious Scholars! Today the issues you have been called here to ponder upon
concern the future of the Muslims in Spain. Apart from a little land and a few
mountains, the rest of the Andalusian Muslims have become subjects to the
Emperor Ferdinand and before the war with Granada, the Muslims of Andalus were
living in peace under the shade of their just and kind-hearted King. The rulers
were kind to the majority of us but now you complain that the Christian
government is not as benevolent with you as it used to be. Some of you think
that life is becoming difficult for the Muslims of Andalus. Muslims are falsely
accused and arrested for being spies. The Christians doubt their loyalty to the
government. These events are very tragic but if you analyze sensibly, you will
feel that we too are to blame. The people are always short-sighted but our
biggest misfortune is that even our religious scholars have not been able to
recognize the direction of this flood. Who amongst us does not know that the
battle of Granada and Castile is similar to a competition between an elephant
and an ant? The path that the people of Granada are treading on is only a path
of destruction. They can postpone their destruction for a few weeks or months
but they cannot change their destiny.

If this issue was limited to the armies of Granada and Castile alone, then, we
would not be that concerned and I wouldn't have given you the trouble of coming
here but the bitter truth is that our present and future is deeply attached to
this war. Thousands of Muslims are at the mercy of the Christian majority and
their governments. The war of Castile and Granada has now become a war between
Islam and Christianity. In such a scenario, Muslims of Andalus cannot expect any
good treatment from the Christians. The relatives of the Christians that die in
the battles of Andalus would take revenge from Muslims and as the war prolongs,
the urge to avenge will intensify. I'm not concerned for the people of Granada.
They have been stupid to opt for war with a powerful neighbor and they will be
punished for that but we should not be heedless to the future of the thousands
of Muslims of Andalus. There is only one way we can be saved and that is for the
war of Granada to stop immediately. Till this war continues, the government of
Andalus will keep doubting our loyalty and our treatment by them will go from
bad to worse.

You might ask what role can the religious scholars and elders of Andalus play to
stop this war? But before I answer this question, I would like to ask you
whether you feel that this war should come to an end at the earliest?"

Someone replied, "Every Muslim of Andalus feels this need."

Another got up and said, "We all agree with you."

Abu Dawood didn't even expect any opposition from them. They all were royal
guests and before this meeting Abu Dawood had met them separately and had told
them why they have been called here. The leaders of these scholars got up one
after the other and supported Abu Dawood's views, who resumed his speech after
being satisfied with them. 

"Gentlemen! To pacify the fears of the Christians, I have given a suggestion to
the King to induct Muslims of Loja and other cities, on voluntary basis, into
the army of His Majesty. In the last battle, some five hundred Muslim youths
supported the government's army but unfortunately most of them, acting
emotionally, joined the army of Granada. The result of this was that the
Christians lost all trust they had on the Muslims and the tragic incident that
happened in the various cities was a result of that.

"The mistake I made was to trust such immature people who would get emotional.
Now I am going to give you gentlemen a very important mission. You will have to
go to Granada in the guise of refuges from Andalus. Once there, explain to the
rulers and especially to the people that achieving the goals of this war is
impossible. That the rest of the Muslims of Andalus are being punished because
of you. Life is being made difficult for them. Gentlemen! If you convince the
people of Granada to lay down their arms, then not only will you save the Muslim
subjects in Ferdinand's Kingdom but also the Muslims of Granada from revenge of
the Christians and this would be a huge accomplishment."

"You will be facilitated fully by the government for completing this mission.
The rest of the details of the mission will be given to you in tomorrow's
meeting over here. Before adjourning the meeting, it is important for me to know
if there is anyone of you who disagrees with me, then, he should be given a
chance to express his opinion."

The audience started looking at each other. A white-bearded scholar sitting in
the corner stood up and said loudly, "Gentlemen! I have reached here today
itself. I had come here with the intention of saying something to our Christian
ruler but it appears that I won't be able to talk directly to the Emperor
Ferdinand. However, I'm thankful to the president of this conference for giving
me the opportunity of freely expressing my views in the capital of the King. It
was the responsibility of the president of the conference to decide whether it
was appropriate for a Muslim to freely express his opinion or not. Anyways,
after this invitation, they have placed a duty upon me and I will live up to
this duty. Instead of expressing my opinions, I will voice the feeling of all
the religious scholars of Islam."

"Gentlemen! The end of the rule in most of the areas of Andalus was a major loss
for us. The other major loss was that the majority of us were satisfied with the
life of indignity. But these losses were not such that they could not have be
compensated. Hope gives life to the oppressed, destitute and helpless. When all
our candles were extinguished, we saw a torch in Granada. For a long time, a
storm in Granada has been trying to extinguish this torch. For a long time, a
storm tried to extinguish this torch and after many unsuccessful attempts this
storm is asking us to put this torch off with our own hands. Today those
religious scholars have been chosen to carry the coffin of the nation who used
to blow the Trumpet of Israfeel into the ears of the deceased nation."

"Abu Dawood! You will be my witness on the Day of Judgment. All these elders and
scholars who are seated here are my witnesses that despite all my weaknesses, I
refused to support those who turned away from a war of truth to be part of the
rewards of the victories of the evil."

"Abu Dawood! If you have given me the chance to express my independent opinion,
then listen! Maybe this would be the last voice of truth that you will hear in
Castile. The day the flag of victory of the Christians flutters over Andalus,
every Muslim's house will be guarded by death. You say that the Christians are
upset because of the defensive war being fought by the people of Granada. But I
ask you, how were we treated at the time when there was no war between Granada
and Ferdinand. Were not the innocent killed at that time? Weren't our
daughters-in-law and daughters insulted? Despite being friends with Granada,
weren't thousands of Muslims sent into exile by the Christians rulers of
Andalus? Weren't they forced to become Christians? Weren't our mosques changed
to churches? Wasn't Arabic made illegal for us to speak and was there any
cruelty that was not made lawful to be done upon us?"

"Abu Dawood! Every nation's dignity is guaranteed by the strength of its
resistance. I remember when Abul Hassan's forces were advancing towards Loja,
our Christian rulers had announced that officers who maltreat any Muslim would
have to face severe punishments. But after Abu Abdullah's treachery and when our
government saw that the danger from Granada had receded, then, they thought that
we deserved the worst of treatments."

"Granada is the last bastion of the Muslims of Andalus. If it falls, then
remember that life for Muslims in Andalus would even be worse than death."

"The president of the conference said that since death is certain for the people
of Granada, therefore, to please the enemy, we should strangle them to death.
But I say to you that by the time our hands reach their jugular vein, our own
jugular vein will be cut."

Slogans of protest were being raised by the audience but contrary to their
expectations, Abu Dawood was listening to his speech very calmly. A few people
tried to make noise during the speech but Abu Dawood calmed them down by raising
his hand. When the elderly scholar finished his speech, Abu Dawood calmly said,
"My respected elder! Is there anything more you would like to say?"

"No", he replied while sitting down.

Abu Dawood said, "Gentlemen! I appreciate his honesty in speech but
unfortunately my speech has raised some misunderstanding in him. I would like to
talk to him alone. And if there is any other elder who has developed some
misunderstanding after his speech, then, I would like to exchange views with
them too. If anyone supports those ideas, then, please let me know."

Four scholars from Seville stood up.

Abu Dawood said, "Only five gentlemen from this conference do not agree with me.
I am sure we will arrive to a consensus after a candid discussion. I will call
you after the evening. Before adjourning this meeting, I would request the
attendees not to mention the proceedings of the meeting to anyone."

At night, one of Abu Dawood's servants took the five scholars along and after
that no one knew where they had disappeared. The next day, some of their
companions believed that they were in some other world.

After being trained by Abu Dawood for about two weeks, this group of so-called
scholars and elders set out towards Granada. After this, Abu Dawood got the
orders issued for the governors of all the provinces from Ferdinand and then set
out for the purpose of recruiting volunteers from different cities. After
creating a group of like-minded people in every city, he made Seville a base for
his activities. The governors of other cities would recruit trust-worthy
individuals and send them to him. He would, in turn, train them and send them to
Granada.

Due to Christian atrocities, Muslims from Andalus were leaving their cities and
settlements and heading towards Granada. Abu Dawood's spies would join these
caravans and reach Granada without any difficulty. The refugees were raising
many challenges for the government of Granada but the people's hospitality and
compassion relieved the burden of the government. They would accommodate the
refugees in their homes and would share their food with them. The entire fertile
regions of Alpujarras had been liberated and many refugee families had settled
there.

About a million refugees had arrived in Granada and its surrounding areas. Two
thousand among them were those influential people who were following the orders
of their guide and mentor from Seville. These people would narrate the tales of
horror of Andalus to the people of Granada to get them on their side and then
they would then try to implant such ideas into their minds: "When will this war
end? What would be its outcome? It's unfortunate not to receive any help from
the Muslims of Africa. The Christians are far more in number than the Muslims
but only if we were fighting with the Christians of Andalus. Now, not only the
people of Hispania but also the Christians from all of Europe have vowed to
obliterate our tiny Sultanate in Granada. Muslims are heart-broken. Muslims
aren't cowards. They know how to kill and how to die. Even today if Ferdinand
comes into the field with all his troops, we will be able to crush them in a few
days. But now all the Christians of Europe are gathering to support him. On the
contrary, our brothers in Africa are unaware about our plight. Until when will
we fight? What will be the outcome of this war?"

These kinds of posters were stuck in the mosques of Granada in the morning:

"What do the religious scholars say? Is it permissible to continue this war even
if its end result is nothing but death?"

With such endeavors of the hypocrites, the number of people with defeated
mentality increased. Even the elders of Granada got influenced by the elders of
Andalus. So far, the army was still not infected with this poison but Abu
Dawood's men were being recruited in the army as well. Some Jewish merchants had
also come here in the guise of refugees and they were buying the souls of
influential nobles with Ferdinand's gold and silver.

The new governor of Loja, John Michael, was more inclined towards using force
instead of wisdom. Even in Abu Dawood's presence the Muslims of Loja did not
feel safe from the atrocities and high-handedness of the Christians. However,
because of Abu Dawood's practical wisdom, their urge to avenge was more or less
suppressed, but as soon as Abu Dawood left, the Muslims felt that life was
becoming difficult for them in Loja.

The five thousand troops that had come to protect Loja would roam the streets
intoxicated in alcohol. They would enter mosques and beat-up the attendees. At
night, they would break into Muslim homes and drag their women into the army
camps.

One day a youth, in a fit of self-respect, killed three soldiers who had
attacked a neighbor's house. After this, John Michael installed a military
government upon the city. A delegation of prominent Christians in the leadership
of a well-intentioned priest met the governor and requested him to place a
restriction on the troops to enter the city. They informed him that the drunken
soldiers would not only break into Muslim homes but at times would also break
into Christian homes. The governor issued orders that Christians should place a
sign of a cross on their doors so that the soldiers wouldn't have any
misunderstanding. 

An affluent Christian merchant was John Michael's friend. John Michael often
went to his place during the night. Every night the soldiers would kidnap an
unfortunate girl and bring her here. 

One night John Michael was drunk. He said to his host, "I have now decided to
get married."

The merchant laughed loudly. "Marriage! You want to get married."

John Michael thundered back and said, "Quiet! You think I'm blabbering because
I'm drunk but I have decided to get married. I want to get married to the most
beautiful girl in Andalus and she is in Loja. Do you know who that is?"

"I know who."

"Really? Who is it?"

"She is Abu Dawood's daughter."

"Do you know her name?"

"Her name is Rabia."

While picking up the glass of wine the governor said, "You don't know anything.
Her name is Angela."

The merchant said, "I have seen Angela but I have heard that Rabia is far
prettier than her."

John Michael thundered back and said, "Who is this Rabia?"

"She's Angela's stepsister. She doesn't come in front of men nor does she go to
church. I have heard that her mother was a Muslim."

"You are lying. There is no girl in Andalus prettier than Angela. I cannot
tolerate her insult. If you repeat that there is someone prettier than Angela,
then, it could be fatal for you."

"So you have decided to marry Angela."

"Yes, my decision is final but she hates me."

"She hates you?"

"Yes she hates me."

"I can't understand why a girl would hate one of Ferdinand's knights? Her mother
is a Christian and I'm sure she would consider it to be her good fortune. If I
have your permission, I can ask the Bishop to talk to her."

"I have already spoken to her mother myself and she has no objection. But the
girl hates me. The day before I had invited them over. Her mother came but she
made an excuse of having a headache. Do you know when pretty looking girls make
an excuse of having a headache? You wouldn't know, you're stupid. When they
don't want to see someone, they make an excuse of a headache. I had sent her
flowers through my maid. Do you know what she did? You wouldn't know. Wait let
me tell you."

John Michael grabbed the bouquet on the table and slammed it on the merchant's
head and then in a fit of laughter, he said, "She took the bouquet of flowers
and slammed it on my maid's head and then, she warned her that if she came again
with anything, she could loose her life."

The merchant replied, "But you should not be hopeless."

John Michael gulped down a glass of wine and said, "Me and loose hope? You don't
know me. There is only a distance of a few steps between me and her, but, even
if there was a distance of seven seas, even then I wouldn't be hopeless. She is
mine. Angela is mine. There is no other way for her. Do you know who I am? You
don't know. You are a stupid merchant."

In normal circumstance, Maria wouldn't have taken any step against Angela's
wishes but an incident occurred that compelled her take some quick decision
concerning Angela's future.

Maria was not used to sleeping late but one night due some illness she couldn't
sleep. Angela's room was next to hers. Around a little after midnight, she felt
thirsty. The water vessel was in the verandah. Instead of calling out to the
maid, Maria fetched the water herself. On her way back, she thought of something
and started towards Angela's room. The door was open but Angela's bed was empty.

The next room was Rabia's and voices of people talking could be heard. Maria
tiptoed and stood close to the door. She slowly shoved the door and started
peeping through the opening. A candle was lit inside. Angela sat on the carpet
in front of Rabia slowly trying to read a book that she held in her hand.
Whenever she got stuck on a word Rabia would help her with it. This was the same
book that Maria had often seen Rabia read with intense devotion and fervor. This
was the Quran.

Maria stood spellbound for a while. In her view, Angela had become guilty of
committing the greatest crime. She felt like rushing to her daughter and
snatching the Quran from her hand but her feet were pierced into the ground. She
had lost her decision-making power.

Angela closed the Quran and after wrapping it in a silk cover, put it in the
cupboard. After this, both stood up and performed their prayers.

Maria returned to her room in extreme grief and pain. A number of times she
thought of dragging Angela by the hair into her room but she felt that the
situation had gone far beyond the danger mark and any hasty action would compel
Angela to revolt openly. For a long time, she sat numb and motionless. Suddenly
she thought of something, then, got up and went out. After the exterior gate her
direction was towards the Bishop's residence. Before this, no servant or soldier
had ever seen her outside on foot.

Moments later she was saying to the Bishop of Loja, "Holy Father! I want to get
Angela married but she's very disobedient. She doesn't listen to me."

The Bishop enquired, "Does she want to become a nun?"

"No Holy Father! She doesn't like any proposal."

"I wanted to meet you concerning this myself. John Michael has said several
times that he likes your daughter."

"Holy Father! I consider this a great honor but Angela is very stubborn. Please
talk some sense into her."

The Bishop thought for a while and said, "Maybe if you had given a chance for
your daughter to meet John Michael, this task would have become much easier."

Maria replied, "Holy Father! If this matter was so easy, I wouldn't have
troubled you. Angela has been enchanted by my stepdaughter. She is Muslim and
she has infused a lot of hatred in her heart about our brethren-in-faith. I fear
that she might go astray. That is why I want to get her married off as soon as
possible. I want to keep her away from Rabia."

The Bishop said, "If that's that case then we should not be lazy. I also want to
know if your husband would approve if Angela is married against her wishes?"

Maria replied, "He is not against getting Angela married into a decent Christian
family but I'm afraid he'll side with Angela if she refuses to get married."

"Is Angela against getting married to John Michael or does she hate every
Christian?"

Maria became nervous and said, "Holy Father! She hates people who drink alcohol
and this is because of her stepsister's influence upon her. The first time when
John Michael came to our place, he was drunk and maybe that is the reason Angela
began to hate him."

The Bishop replied, "I feel that the environment of your home has been quite
different from normal Christians homes. You should not be so worried. This
matter will resolve. I will passby your house today evening. Make preparations
to have John Michael for dinner. At present, there is no need to invite anyone
else."

Maria replied, "Holy Father! I'm afraid that she might make an excuse of some
illness and would lie in her bed as soon as she hears the name of John Michael."

"Then there is no need to mention John Michael's name in front of her. He will
arrive at the time when we have been seated at the dinner table."

After meeting the Bishop of Loja, Maria sat with Rabia and Angela for the whole
day. Angela was grieved by the fact that she could not join Rabia to perform her
prayers. However, she was glad that there was a positive change in her mother's
behavior towards her stepsister.

Today Maria was extremely benevolent towards Rabia. She insisted on Rabia to
groom herself and change her clothes. She would say, "Rabia you are very
careless when it comes to dressing. People must be saying that your stepmother
doesn't take any interest in you. You sit sorrowfully the whole day. Look at
your complexion. It has become so pale. When your father returns, he will think
that I have been bothering you a lot. For God's sake, take care of your health."

Seeing such a big change of heart in her mother's attitude for Rabia, Angela was
so impressed that at night when Maria asked her to join her and the Bishop for
dinner, she could not refuse.

After talking about various topics at the dinner table, the Bishop mentioned
John Michael. Angela listened heedless to John Michael's heroic feats.
Mentioning different achievements of his, he said, "Unfortunately, the only vice
I see in John Michael is that he does not drink moderately, otherwise, there is
no knight in Spain at par with him. However, those who know his weakness,
believe that he's excusable. He loved his wife immensely. After her death he
started drinking heavily to forget his grief. He could not find a life partner
who could reduce the bitterness of his life. Respected households of Andalus
consider it an honor to be related to him but he hasn't come across a girl that
he likes. In fact, even the girls of the royal families don't meet his standard.
Now a friend of his tells me that he wants to marry a very innocent girl. If
that girl is smart as well, then, I'm sure she can bring a change in all the
habits of John Michael and this would be a great service to the church. At the
moment, the sons of the church are fighting against the enemy and it is the duty
of the daughters of the church to provide them with the goods of relief. Instead
of criticizing John Michael's habit of drinking we should focus on the reasons
behind which he prefers to be drunk all the time. He is in a state of grief
after his wife's death. Apart from this, he has lost a lot of his best friends
at the hands of the savage Muslims in front of his eyes. It would be sad if the
daughters of the nation would despise him instead of feeling sorry for him."

Angela's anxiety was increasing. She felt that a trap was being laid out for
her. She looked at her mother and then at the Bishop. She wanted to say
something but a maidservant whispered something in Maria's ear and Maria became
upset and said, "Why have you made him sit in the meeting room? Bring him over
here."

The maid looked at Maria in perplexity. Maria could not understand the reason
for this. She became upset and said, "Why don't you go? Why are you staring at
me?"

But the maid bent down and said something again in Maria's ear and Maria's face
suddenly went pale. The Bishop and Angela looked at Maria with quizzing glances.
Appearing a bit worried, the Bishop enquired, "What's the matter?"

While getting up, Maria said, "Nothing. I will be right back."

But hearing someone's footsteps in the veranda Maria halted and at the same time
she heard her black slave saying, "I cannot let you go inside in this
condition."

In reply to this, a voice of a person who appeared to be drunk could be heard
saying, "You cannot block my path. I am the governor of this city. Move away or
else I will hang you."

Maria's feet froze to the ground. After a moment, John Michael stood at the
door. He held a golden, long-necked flask in one hand and a cup in the other.
Terror beamed through his eyes. Maria, Angela and the Bishop stared at him in a
state of perplexity.

Maria said in a petrified voice, "Angela! Go to the room in the back."

But Angela's honor did not consider leaving her mother alone. The Bishop wasn't
prepared to face this unprecedented situation. At times he would look at John
Michael with anger and regret and at times he would look at Maria with
apology-seeking glances.

John Michael had another glass of alcohol while standing at the door and
stumbled forward. He placed the flask and the cup on the table and sat on an
empty chair close to the Bishop. Angela dragged herself and stood close to her
mother.

John Michael said, "Why are you standing? Please be seated. Your servants are
very ill-mannered. Every man in Loja knows me but your servants don't even know
that I am the governor of this city. Holy Father! I have come here to arrive to
a final decision but why are they standing? Angela! Are you scared of me? For
God's sake, sit down. I am not your enemy and look at your mother. Am I a
monster? She had invited me over and now she is trembling after seeing my face."

The Bishop said, "Maria sit down. My daughter Angela! Don't be scared. Michael
is a knight. A daughter of the church should have no fear of him."

Michael said, "Holy Father! Respecting them is my duty but no knight would bear
being insulted after being invited to a house. Didn't she invite me here?"

Angela gave a contemptuous look at her mother. The Bishop reiterated, "I was
just telling you that the current situation is such that a lot of our best
soldiers have become accustomed to drinking heavily. When the circumstances
change, so will this habit. Maria! Angela! Sit down. John Michael wouldn't even
think of insulting you."

After a little hesitation, Maria sat down. But Angela remained standing.

While changing his tone John Michael said, "Holy Father! I had promised you that
today I will drink moderately but unfortunately this is beyond my control. I
know Angela hates alcohol. Holy Father! I will leave it...I can do anything for
Angela. Angela! For God's sake, sit down! You don't want to sit? You have to
sit. I can't bear being insulted after I have come to your house."

With trembling hands John Michael filled and drank another cup full of wine to
his mouth.

Maria held Angela's hand and whispered, "This is a drunkard's obstinacy. For
God's sake, sit down."

More than her words, Angela was moved more by her mother's pleading glances and
she finally sat down. Her fear of Michael had changed to hatred. A few moments
ago, modesty would have compelled her to run away from there but now honor
dictated that she faced the situation.

After staring at Angela silently for a while, John Michael said, "Why have you
left your food? Eat! Don't worry about me. At this time, I do not eat. I only
drink. Holy Father! This flask is at your service if you want to join me. The
type of drink I got today was very light, that is why I brought the flask along.
Maybe like Angela, you too hate alcohol but if you were in my place, you too
would have drunk a lot. Even more than me. You would have been drunk all the
time. A lot of thoughts trouble a man when he's sober. Don't think that I used
to drink like this all the time. There was a time when I hated alcohol so much
that I didn't even touch it during religious celebrations but now I drink the
most. Angela does not like this habit of mine. Maybe Angela wouldn't also like
my habit of going to people's homes during the night. Maybe Angela might call me
a tyrant."

The Bishop thought of interrupting Michael and said, "I have already told Angela
that you had become addicted to drinking after the death of your wife."

Michael replied, "That is wrong. That is totally wrong. I know that the cause of
her death was my habit of drinking. Apart from my drinking, she hated a number
of my habits. Whatever happened after the victory of Al-Hama, she used to say
that I was a savage but it wasn't my fault. Before the victory of Al-Hama, I
used to drink very little. But on that day of victory, I emptied a lot of jugs
and then that incident happened. I didn't know what I was doing since I was
intoxicated. She was very pretty. I had even promised her that I would save her
life. Her crime was not minor. She had killed two of our soldiers. Four of her
brothers died in the battle. The people of the city had laid their arms down. It
was their duty to open the doors of their homes for us but the door of that
pretty girl's house was shut. I ordered to break the door down. I wouldn't have
done that but I had drunk a lot due to the joy of victory. When my soldiers were
breaking the door a few arrows came down from the roof. Eight of my soldiers
were injured and died on the spot. When we entered the house, there was only a
girl there. She attacked me with a dagger but I snatched the dagger from her
hand. If I had not stopped my soldiers, they would have ripped her apart. The
soldiers left but I remained there. I ordered more alcohol to be brought in. I
presented a glass to her. I said that I promise to save your life. I told her
that I will leave her outside the city but she was very stubborn just like
Angela. She threw the glass on my face. She avulsed my face. Her curses were
unbearable for me. After that I was not in my senses. Then, I didn't know what I
was doing. Her agony increased as my grip on her neck became tighter. The next
morning when I awoke, her corpse lay next to me. Her beautiful neck bore the
marks of my fingers. I thought she was sleeping. Looking at her face, I couldn't
believe that I have killed her with my own hands. I was trying to wake her up."

"After that I drank the whole day. From that day onwards, I have always been
drinking heavily but this thirst is such that it can never be quenched. The
first time when I saw Angela, I remembered that girl. The responsibility of
whatever I have been doing till this day lies on that girl and whatever I do
from today will be because of Angela. Today I have come here to decide that.
Angela! You have to give me a reply whether you agree to get married to me or
not."

Tears had already swelled in Angela's eyes. She was imagining the deafening
screams of that girl. At John Michael's question, she got startled. "You know my
answer." Angela stood up.

Michael said in a thundering tone, "If that is the same as the one that that
girl had given, then, hear this that I have become accustomed to crushing that
flower whose fragrance is not mine."

Angela replied, "You wanted to blacken your face with that girl but you have
sent me a marriage proposal. The only answer to Ferdinand's knight and defender
of the church is that, in my sight, compared to you, a beggar of Loja is much
more respectable than you. For that helpless girl you were a hungry wolf but for
me you are a mad dog. Even then you deserved to be hated and even now you
deserve to be hated."

"Angela! Angela!! The Bishop and Maria said in one voice but she paid no
attention to them. She said, "You are a gruesome stain on humanity. You
threatened me but until God's hand is over me, you can't harm me even a bit. The
ground on which you have built a magnificent church is the very ground where the
blood of the innocent has been spilled. The time will come when these buildings
will become ashes and the coming generations won't even be able to see their
ruins but the hand of time won't be able to wipe out the writings on the pages
of history by the blood of these innocent ones."

Angela then turned her attention towards the Bishop and said, "And you make the
statue of Marium and worship it. And you think that it is a great service to the
religion of her son by dishonoring innocent girls at the hands of your soldiers.
You worship this cross on which the son of God was crucified? But I ask you,
aren't there hundreds of innocent souls whom you hang everyday in every city of
Andalus?"

The Bishop got up and said, "This girl has gone astray. Her sister has cast a
spell on her. She doesn't know what she is saying. Michael! Come on, let's go!"

"No, I won't leave without a decision." After drinking his last cup, Michael was
reaching the stage of becoming unconscious. He got up and advanced towards
Angela. His feet were stumbling. Angela took a heavy vase from the table and
moved to a side. Maria called her black slave. He came running into the room. In
the meanwhile, Michael had come close to Angela. Angela crashed the vase on his
head. Michael merely needed an excuse to fall. The slight hit from the vase
threw him off balance.

As soon as he fell, the Bishop stepped forward and said to the black slave,
"Pick him up and take him to his room immediately. If his servants enquire, tell
them that he became unconscious after drinking." The well-built black slave put
John Michael on his shoulders and went out.

The Bishop looked at Angela and said, "Angela! I had invited John Michael over
here. It's not your mother's fault and it is totally wrong when I say that your
stepsister has led you astray. If she has taught you all this, then you should
learn a lot more from her. I initially thought that Michael's behavior could be
corrected but I was wrong. You should keep away from him. I am going to resign
from my position tomorrow. For a long time, I had felt that I was not doing the
church any service in the capacity of a Bishop but my conscious needed a jolt. I
am thankful to you that you have awoken a sleeping individual and Maria, write
to your husband that if cannot come here immediately, then, he should call you
over there."
